















mosaic-H Reference Guide



Applicable to version 4.14.10 of the Firmware
































mosaic-H Reference Guide 2024-09-23
Applicable to version 4.14.10 of the Firmware

(c) Copyright 2000-2024 Septentrio NV/SA. All rights reserved.





Septentrio NV
Greenhill Campus, Interleuvenlaan 15i 3001 Leuven, Belgium

http://www.septentrio.com Phone: +32 16 300 800
Fax:	+32 16 221 640
   @Septentrio








List of Contents

Contents	6
Scope	7
List of Acronyms	8
1 How To...	12
1.1 Connect to the Receiver	13
1.1.1 Via COM Ports	13
1.1.2 Via USB	13
1.1.3 Via a TCP/IP Port	13
1.1.3.1 Ethernet	14
1.1.3.2 Ethernet-over-USB	14
1.1.3.3 Point-to-Point Link	14
1.1.4 Via a Web Browser	15
1.1.5 Connection Descriptors	15
1.2 Understand the Output of the Receiver	17
1.2.1 Proprietary Binary Output (SBF)	17
1.2.2 NMEA	17
1.2.3 RTCM and CMR	18
1.3 De?ne an SBF Output Stream	19
1.4 Save the Con?guration in Non-Volatile Memory	20
1.5 Con?gure the Receiver in DGNSS/RTK-Base Mode	21
1.5.1 Static Base Station Mode	21
1.5.2 RTK Moving Base Station Mode	22
1.6 Con?gure the Receiver in DGNSS/RTK-Rover Mode	24
1.7 Determine a GNSS-Based Attitude from the Main and Aux Antennas	25
1.8 Determine a GNSS-Based Attitude from a Moving Base	27
1.9 Con?gure the Receiver in NTRIP Server Mode	29
1.10 Con?gure the Receiver in NTRIP Client Mode	30
1.11 Use the Built-In NTRIP Caster	31
1.11.1 Broadcasting Local Streams	31
1.11.2 Broadcasting Remote Streams	31
1.12 Con?gure an IP Server Port	33
1.13 Con?gure an IP Receive Port	34
1.14 Log SBF or NMEA	35
1.15 Log RINEX Files	36
1.16 Download Log Files from the Receiver	37
1.17 FTP Push Log ?les	39
1.18 Communicate with External Equipment	40
1.19 Generate a "Pulse Per Second" Signal	41
1.20 Time Tag External Events	42
1.21 Monitor the RF Spectrum	43
1.22 Detect Spoo?ng Attacks	44
1.23 Use Galileo OSNMA	45
1.24 Manage Users	46
1.25 Upgrade the Receiver	47
1.26 Check the Capabilities of your Receiver	48
1.27 Check or Change the Permission File	49
2 Operation Details	50
2.1 Channel Allocation and Signal Selection	50
2.2 Generation of Measurements	50
2.2.1 Pilot vs. Data Component	51
2.3 Time Management	52
2.3.1 Free-Running Clock	52
2.3.2 Clock Steering	53
2.4 Computation of Position, Velocity, and Time (PVT Solution)	54
2.4.1 SBAS Positioning	55
2.4.2 DGNSS Positioning	55
2.4.3 RTK Positioning	55
2.4.3.1 Integer Ambiguities (RTK-?xed)	56
2.4.3.2 Floating Ambiguities (RTK-?oat)	56
2.4.3.3 Moving Base	56
2.4.4 Transition between PVT Modes	57
2.4.5 PVT Latency	57
2.4.6 Datum Transformation	57
2.4.6.1 Transformation to Regional Datum	58
2.4.6.2 Transformation to Local Datum	58
2.5 Antenna Effects	59
2.5.1 Antenna Effects in Rover Mode	59
2.5.2 Antenna Effects in Base Mode	60
2.6 Galileo OSNMA	60
2.6.1 Use of OSNMA in Simulated Scenarios	61
3 Command Line Reference	63
3.1 Command Line Interface Outline	64
3.1.1 Command Types	64
3.1.2 Command Line Syntax	64
3.1.3 Command Replies	65
3.1.4 Command Syntax Tables	66
3.2 Command De?nitions	69
3.2.1 Receiver Administration	69
3.2.2 Standby and Sleep Con?guration	87
3.2.3 User Management	88
3.2.4 Tracking and Measurement Generation	93
3.2.5 Frontend and Interference Mitigation	102
3.2.6 Navigation Filter	107
3.2.7 Authentication	133
3.2.8 Attitude Determination	136
3.2.9 Datum De?nition	139
3.2.10 Transformation to Local Coordinates	144
3.2.11 Timing and Time Management	148
3.2.12 Station Settings	156
3.2.13 General Input/Output	159
3.2.14 NTRIP Settings	179
3.2.15 NMEA Con?guration	186
3.2.16 SBF Con?guration	192
3.2.17 RTCM v2.x Settings	199
3.2.18 RTCM v3.x Settings	207
3.2.19 CMR v2.0 Settings	215
3.2.20 Internal Disk Logging	220
3.2.21 FTP Push of Log Files	231
4 SBF Reference	234
4.1 SBF Outline	235
4.1.1 SBF Block Header Format	235
4.1.2 SBF Block Names and Numbers	235
4.1.3 SBF Block Time Stamp (TOW and WNc)	236
4.1.4 Sub-blocks	236
4.1.5 Padding Bytes	237
4.1.6 SBF Revision Number	237
4.1.7 Do-Not-Use Value	237
4.1.8 Output Rate	237
4.1.9 Satellite ID and GLONASS Frequency Number	238
4.1.10 Signal Type	239
4.1.11 Channel Numbering	239
4.1.12 Decoding of SBF Blocks	240
4.2 SBF Block De?nitions	241
4.2.1 Measurement Blocks	241
4.2.2 Navigation Page Blocks	255
4.2.3 GPS Decoded Message Blocks	263
4.2.4 GLONASS Decoded Message Blocks	270
4.2.5 Galileo Decoded Message Blocks	273
4.2.6 BeiDou Decoded Message Blocks	281
4.2.7 QZSS Decoded Message Blocks	286
4.2.8 SBAS L1 Decoded Message Blocks	289
4.2.9 GNSS Position, Velocity and Time Blocks	303
4.2.10 GNSS Attitude Blocks	336
4.2.11 Receiver Time Blocks	340
4.2.12 External Event Blocks	342
4.2.13 Differential Correction Blocks	354
4.2.14 Status Blocks	358
4.2.15 Miscellaneous Blocks	381
4.3 SBF Change Log	389
A Attitude Angles	390
B List of SBF Blocks	392
C List of NMEA Sentences	395
C.1 Proprietary NMEA Sentences	396
C.1.1 HRP : Heading, Roll, Pitch	396
C.1.2 RBD : Rover-Base Direction	397
C.1.3 RBP : Rover-Base Position	397
C.1.4 RBV : Rover-Base Velocity	398
C.1.5 SNC : NTRIP Client Status	398
C.1.6 TFM : Used RTCM Coordinate Transformation Messages	398
D List of CMR and RTCM Messages	400
D.1 CMR Messages	400
D.2 RTCM v2.x Messages	400
D.3 RTCM v3.x Messages	400
Index of Commands	403
Index of SBF Blocks	413




Scope

This document contains reference information about the receiver ?rmware.

Chapter 1 provides a set of step-by-step "how-to's" to help you ?nd your way around the receiver's commands and logs.
Chapter 2 provides some background on the main algorithms running in the receiver and on the way to con?gure them.
Chapter 3 contains the complete description of the user command interface. Chapter 4 contains the complete description of the SBF format.



Typographical Conventions

abc User command name. Clicking a command name redirects to the full command description.
abc	Command argument name.
abc Command replies.
SBF block name or SBF ?eld name. Clicking an SBF block name redirects to the full SBF block description.









List of Acronyms


Abbreviation	Description
AGC	Automatic Gain Control
ARP	Antenna Reference Point
ASCII	American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASN.1	Abstract Syntax Notation One
BeiDou	BeiDou Navigation System
BGD	Broadcast Group Delay
CA	Coarse Acquisition
CGGTTS	Common GPS GLONASS Time Transfer Standard CMR	Compact Measurement Record
COG	Course Over Ground
CPU	Central Processing Unit
CRC	Cyclic Redundancy Check
DGNSS	Differential GNSS
DHCP	Dynamic Host Con?guration Protocol
DLL	Dynamically Linked Library
DNS	Domain Name Server
DOP	Dilution Of Precision
DVS	Data Validity Status
ECEF	Earth-Centered Earth-Fixed
EGNOS	European Geostationary Navigation Overlay System ENU	East-North-Up
FTP	File Transfer Protocol
GEO	Geostationary Earth Orbiter


GLONASS	Global Orbiting Navigation Satellite System GNSS	Global Navigation Satellite System
GPS	Global Positioning System
GST	Galileo System Time
GUI	Graphical User Interface
HDOP	Horizontal DOP
HMI	Hazardously Misleading Information
HPCA	HMI Probability Computation Algorithm
HPL	Horizontal Protection Level
HS	Health Status
ICD	Interface Control Document
IEEE	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
IERS	International Earth Rotation Service
IF	Intermediate Frequency
IGP	Ionospheric Grid Point
IGS	International GPS Service
IMU	Inertial Measurement Unit
INS	Inertial Navigation System
IODC	Issue of Data - Clock
IODE	Issue Of Data Ephemeris
IP	Internet Protocol
IRNSS	Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System ITRF	International Terrestrial Reference Frame
ITRS	International Terrestrial Reference System
LBand	L-Band Receiver
L1	L1 carrier
L2	L2 carrier
L2C	L2C code
LED	Light Emitting Diode
LSB	Least Signi?cant Bit
MIB	Management Information Base
MSB	Most Signi?cant Bits
MT	Message Type


NATO	North Atlantic Treaty Organisation
NAV	Navigation
NavIC	Navigation with Indian Constellation NAVSTAR	Navigation Satellite Timing And Ranging NMEA	National Marine Electronics Association
OSNMA	Open Service Navigation Message Authentication P	P(Y) code
P1	P1 code
P2	P2 code
PC	Phase Center
PDOP	Position DOP
PLL	Phase Locked Loop
PPP	Precise Point Positioning
PPS	Pulse Per Second
PRC	Pseudorange Correction
PRN	Pseudo Random Noise
PVT	Position, Velocity and Time
QZSS	Quasi-Zenith Satellite System
RAIM	Receiver Autonomous Integrity Monitoring
RINEX	Receiver Independent Exchange Format
RTCA	Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics
RTCM	Radio Technical Commission for Maritime Services RTK	Real-Time Kinematic
SBAS	Space-Based Augmentation System
SBF	Septentrio Binary Format
SIS	Signal In Space
SISA	Signal in Space Accuracy
SNMP	Simple Network Management Protocol
SV	Space Vehicle
SVID	Space Vehicle ID
TDOP	Time DOP
TOW	Time Of Week
UDRE	User Differential Range Error


UERE	User Equivalent Range Error
UHF	Ultra High Frequency
URA	User Range Accuracy
USB	Universal Serial Bus
UTC	Coordinated Universal Time
VDOP	Vertical DOP
VPL	Vertical Protection Level
VRS	Virtual Reference Station
WAAS	Wide Area Augmentation System
WGS84	World Geodetic System 1984
WN	Week Number
WNc	Week number
XERL	External Reliability Levels
XOR	Exclusive OR









Chapter 1

How To...

This chapter contains step-by-step instructions to help you with typical tasks. It will help you to familiarize yourself with the receiver commands without going into too much detail.
For a comprehensive description of the command set, refer to chapter 3. You can also click on any command or SBF block name in this manual to be redirected to the full description of that command or SBF block.
You can enter user commands in many different ways:

• Commands can be accessed graphically through menus in RxControl and in the web interface (see section 1.1.4).
• Using the Data Link program provided in the RxTools suite (or any suitable terminal em- ulation program), you can enter commands manually through one of the receiver input ports (see section 1.1). In this chapter, user commands are referred to by their full name for readability. When typing the command, you can always use the short mnemonic equivalent to save typing effort. For instance, instead of typing setCOMSettings, you can type scs.
• You can type commands or mnemonics in the console window of RxControl (menu Tools
> Expert Console) or of the web interface (menu Admin > Expert Console).
 Depending on the capabilities of your particular receiver (see section 1.26), some of the user commands, SBF blocks or communication interfaces described in this document may not be supported.


1.1 Connect to the Receiver
1.1.1 Via COM Ports
A simple way to communicate with the receiver is to connect one of its COM-ports to a COM- port of your host computer. You can use the provided COM cable for this purpose. The default COM-port settings are:

ParameterValuebaud rate115200data bits8paritynostop bits1flow controlnone
The baud rate can be modi?ed at any time by using the setCOMSettings command.

RxControl and Data Link can communicate with the receiver over a COM-port connection: select Serial Connection option when opening the connection to the receiver.

1.1.2 Via USB
The Windows USB driver provided with your receiver emulates two virtual serial ports, which can be used as standard COM ports to access the receiver. The Windows USB diver can be installed through the RxTools software suite. On Linux, the standard Linux CDC-ACM driver is suitable. Most terminal emulation programs will make no distinction between virtual and native COM ports. Note that the port settings (baud rate, etc) for virtual serial ports are not relevant, and can be left in their default con?guration in the terminal emulation program.
When connecting the USB cable to a Windows PC, a new drive appears in the ?le manager. This drive contains an installer for the USB driver. Running this installer is not needed if you have already installed the RxTools suite. A second drive is created when the receiver is con?gured as a USB mass-storage device, as explained in section 1.16.

1.1.3 Via a TCP/IP Port
TCP/IP connections allow remote control of the receiver and are potentially much faster than serial connections.  Up to eight independent TCP/IP connections can be opened in parallel through port 28784 (the port number can be changed with the command setIPPortSettings).
RxControl and Data Link can communicate with remote receivers over a TCP/IP connection: select TCP/IP Connection option when opening the connection to the receiver.
TCP/IP connections can be made over the following interfaces.


1.1.3.1 Ethernet
Over the Ethernet interface, the receiver can be con?gured for dynamic or ?xed IP address allocation. The default is dynamic address allocation, using the DHCP protocol. The host- name is mosaic-h-xxxxxxx, where xxxxxxx consists of the last seven digits of the serial number of the receiver.
Dynamic IP address allocation requires the availability of a DHCP server in your local network. In the absence of a DHCP server, or when a ?xed IP address is desirable, it is possible to disable the DHCP client and use a ?xed address. This is done using the setIPSettings command.

1.1.3.2 Ethernet-over-USB
When an USB cable is connected, the receiver supports Ethernet-over-USB. The IP address allocated to the Ethernet-over-USB interface is 192.168.3.1. That address cannot be changed, so that this feature is only to be used when a single receiver is connected to your computer.
By default, the receiver is not allowed to access the Internet over USB. This can be changed with the setUSBInternetAccess command. Note that this requires allowing Internet sharing on your computer. The procedure to do so depends on your operating system. For example, on Windows, it involves enabling "Allow other network users to connect through this computer's Internet connection." in the properties of the adapter providing Internet access. When Internet sharing is enabled, the receiver gets its IP address from a DHCP server on your computer. Depending on your computer's routing table, it may be that it is not reach- able anymore at 192.168.3.1.

1.1.3.3 Point-to-Point Link
The receiver incorporates a point-to-point protocol server, by which it can accept TCP/IP con- nections over a serial link.
Con?guring the point-to-point server is done with the setPointToPoint command. For example, to set up a point-to-point communication over COM1, with the server (i.e. the re- ceiver) having address 192.168.60.1 and the client having address 192.168.60.2, and using CHAP authentication with password "mypwd", use this command:
setPointToPoint, P2PP1, Server, COM1, 192.168.60.2, 192.168.60.1,
CHAP, mypwd <CR>

If  the  client  is  a  Linux  computer,  make  sure  the  password  is  set  in  the
/etc/ppp/chap-secrets ?le. For example, the contents of that ?le could be as follows:

Assuming that the serial cable is connected to the ?rst serial port of your PC, and that the receiver's COM1 port is left in its default con?guration (115200 baud and no hardware ?ow control), the client PPP daemon can be started with the following Linux command:


pppd /dev/ttyS0 115200 nocrtscts local

After a few seconds, the PPP link is established and it is possible to access the receiver at IP address 192.168.60.1.

1.1.4 Via a Web Browser
The receiver can be controlled and con?gured using a web browser. The hostname or ?xed IP address is de?ned as explained in section 1.1.3.
For example, if your receiver's hostname is mosaic-h-1234567, simply use the following URL in your preferred web browser:
http://mosaic-h-1234567

or, for a secure connection:

https://mosaic-h-1234567

The https certi?cate (.pem ?le) can be uploaded through the Communication > Web Server/TLS menu of the web interface.
Most user commands described in section 3.2 can be accessed graphically from the web interface. You can also go to Admin > Expert Control > Expert Console to manually type ASCII commands and view replies.
By default, the web interface provides unrestricted read and write access to the receiver. This can be changed, as further explained in section 1.24 of this document.
Note that a lightweight (text only) version of the web interface is available by appending
/lite to the URL, for example:
http://mosaic-h-1234567/lite


1.1.5 Connection Descriptors
Receiver connections are identi?ed by their connection descriptor (CD). The different con- nection descriptors are shown in the table below. The three rightmost columns indicate the direction (input or output or both), and whether the connection can accept user command input.



CDDescriptionInOutCmdCOMxone of the serial ports•••USBxone of the USB-device serial ports•••DSK1the internal disk. See section 1.14•IP1xone of the TCP/IP connections•••NTRxone of the NTRIP connections. Input in NTRIP client mode (section 1.10), output in NTRIP server mode (section 1.9)••IPSxone of the IP server connections. See section 1.12•••IPRxone of the IP receive connections. See section 1.13•••

1.2 Understand the Output of the Receiver
The receiver outputs proprietary and standardized messages. Each proprietary message be- gins with a two-character identi?er, which identi?es the message type.

Proprietary messagesFirst	two charactersASCII command replies and command error noti?cation$RASCII transmissions (e.g. periodic output of the status screen), termi- nated by a prompt. Two sub-types are de?ned:
• $TD : ASCII display generated by the receiver;
• $TE : event noti?cation (e.g. receiver is shutting down).$TFormatted information blocks (e.g. formal command description)$-SNMP' binary command replies (Septentrio proprietary)$&Proprietary binary data (SBF)$@

1.2.1 Proprietary Binary Output (SBF)
The binary messages conform to the SBF de?nition. The data are arranged in SBF blocks identi?ed by block IDs. All the blocks begin with the SBF identi?er $@. Please refer to section 4 for a description of the SBF format.
The bene?t of SBF is completeness. This format should be your ?rst choice if you wish to receive detailed information from the receiver.
The list of supported SBF messages can be found in appendix B

SBF Converter, provided in the RxTools package is an intuitive GUI which allows SBF conver- sion into e.g. RINEX, KML, GPX or ASCII.

1.2.2 NMEA
The receiver can generate a set of approved NMEA sentences, which conform to the NMEA Standard (version 3.01(1) and version 4.10(2) are supported). The bene?t of the NMEA format is that it is standardized. Many electronic devices and software packages support NMEA. The drawback of NMEA is a relatively low level of detail.
NMEA output is con?gured with the setNMEAOutput command, and the NMEA version (3.01 or 4.10) is selected with the setNMEAVersion command.
The list of supported NMEA sentences can be found in appendix C.
(1)	NMEA 0183, Standard for Interfacing Marine Electronic Devices, Version 3.01, National Marine Electronics Association, 2002
(2)	NMEA 0183, Standard for Interfacing Marine Electronic Devices, Version 4.10, National Marine Electronics Association, 2012


1.2.3 RTCM and CMR
The receiver can operate as DGNSS and/or RTK base station and output the corresponding RTCM or CMR messages. The instructions to set the receiver in base station mode can be found in section 1.5.
The list of supported RTCM and CMR messages can be found in appendix D.


1.3 Define an SBF Output Stream
As an example, this section explains how to use the command line interface to con?gure the receiver to output the MeasEpoch SBF block at 10 Hz, the PVTCartesian SBF block at 1 Hz, and the GPSNav block at its On-Change rate (see section 4.1.8 for more details on the SBF output rate). In this example, we will assume that these blocks must be output through the USB2 connection.
1. First make sure that the USB2 connection is con?gured for SBF output (this is the default). In case this is not so, you should invoke:
setDataInOut,USB2, ,+SBF <CR>

2. Scheduling SBF blocks for output is done by de?ning so-called "SBF streams". At least 10 SBF streams can be de?ned by the user. A stream consists of a set of SBF blocks that need to be output at a given rate through a given connection.  By default, all streams are empty, and no SBF blocks are output. For our example, we will need to use two streams. De?ning these SBF streams involves the setSBFOutput command: setSBFOutput,Stream1,USB2,MeasEpoch+GPSNav,msec100 <CR> setSBFOutput,Stream2,USB2,PVTCartesian,sec1 <CR>
Note that the rate speci?ed with the setSBFOutput command (msec100 or sec1 above)
only applies to the blocks that support a ?exible output rate (see appendix B). The GPSNav block does not support ?exible rate: it is always output at its "On-Change" rate regardless of the stream rate. For this reason, in the above example, we could equally have enabled GPSNav in Stream2.

3. To stop outputting SBF on a given connection, you can either rede?ne or empty the corresponding streams:
setSBFOutput,Stream1,USB2,none <CR> setSBFOutput,Stream2,USB2,none  <CR>
A second possibility is to disable all SBF messages on that connection:
setDataInOut,USB2, ,-SBF <CR>


Note that the exeSBFOnce command can be used to output a set of blocks once, instead of at regular interval. This is typically used to output all currently available satellite ephemerides at once. For example, the following command instructs the receiver to output all known GPS, GLONASS, Galileo and BeiDou ephemerides over USB2:
exeSBFOnce, USB2, GPS+GLO+GAL+BDS <CR>

This is a one-time action: the requested blocks are inserted in the stream, and then the normal ?ow of blocks as de?ned with setSBFOutput resumes. When logging the SBF stream for post-processing, it is a good practice to request all satellite ephemerides with the exeSBFOnce command when starting a new log ?le. Make sure however not to re- quest measurement or PVT blocks with exeSBFOnce when these blocks are also enabled with setSBFOutput as it could cause the same epoch to be duplicated in the log ?le. Some post-processing tools may not work properly when the same epoch is repeated twice.


1.4 Save the Configuration in Non-Volatile Memory
The receiver con?guration includes all the user-selectable parameters, such as the elevation mask, the PVT mode, the COM port settings,...
By default, the receiver starts up in its factory default con?guration. The factory defaults for each of the receiver parameters are underlined for each argument of each command in section 3.2
The current receiver con?guration can be checked with the lstConfigFile command:
lstConfigFile, Current <CR>

At any time, it is possible to save the current con?guration into non-volatile memory, in order to force the receiver to always start up in that con?guration. To do so, the following command should be entered:
exeCopyConfigFile,Current,Boot  <CR>

To revert to the default setting where the receiver starts in the default con?guration, you should use:
exeCopyConfigFile,RxDefault,Boot  <CR>


1.5 Configure the Receiver in DGNSS/RTK- Base Mode
The receiver can generate and output DGNSS and/or RTK corrections in the RTCM and CMR formats. The list of supported RTCM and CMR messages can be found in appendix D.

1.5.1 Static Base Station Mode
To con?gure the receiver in static base station mode, the following has to be done:
1. For accurate and repetitive absolute positioning, you must provide the accurate coordinates of the antenna reference point (ARP). The ARP usually corresponds to the center of the bottom of the antenna (see also section 2.5). For example, assuming the WGS84 position of the ARP is 50.5o N, 4o E and its altitude above the WGS84 ellipsoid is 100m, use:
setStaticPosGeodetic,Geodetic1,50.5,4,100 <CR> setPVTMode,Static, ,Geodetic1 <CR>

If you are only interested in accurate determination of the base-rover baseline, with the absolute position of the rover being of lesser importance, accurate positioning of the base station is not required, and you may simply let the receiver determine its ?xed position autonomously ("auto-base" mode), by typing: setPVTMode,Static, ,auto <CR>

2. For RTCM 3.x, the antenna information in message types 1007, 1008 and 1033 can be speci?ed using the setAntennaOffset command, with the serial number as sixth argument, and the antenna type (called "antenna descriptor" in RTCM) as ?fth argument  (see  also  section  2.5).  For  instance: setAntennaOffset,Main, , , ,"AT2775-54SW","5684" <CR>

3. Use the commands setRTCMv2Interval, setRTCMv2IntervalObs, setRTCM- v3Interval or setCMRv2Interval to specify the message interval (default is one second for most messages). For instance, to change the interval at which RTCM 3.x message type 1033 is generated to 10 seconds, type: setRTCMv3Interval,RTCM1033,10 <CR>

4. Use the commands setRTCMv2Formatting, setRTCMv3Formatting or set- CMRv2Formatting to specify the base station ID. If you are setting up multiple base stations, make sure to select a unique ID for each of them. For instance: setRTCMv3Formatting,496 <CR>

5. By default, the receiver is con?gured to output all RTCM and CMR messages necessary for DGNSS and RTK operation. If necessary, the set of output messages can be speci?ed with the commands setRTCMv2Output, setRTCMv3Output or setCMRv2Output. For instance, to output RTCM3.x messages 1006, 1033 and 1074 on COM2, use: setRTCMv3Output,COM2,RTCM1006+RTCM1033+RTCM1074 <CR>

If you are using the RTCM3.x MSM messages (see appendix D), you can use the
setRTCMv3Formatting command to con?gure the signal types that need to be


encoded in MSM.

6. The RTCM stream can be output through any output connection listed in section 1.1.5. For instance, to enable RTCM 3.x output through COM2, use: setDataInOut,COM2, ,RTCMv3 <CR>

7. When sending differential corrections over a serial port, do not forget to specify the baud rate. For instance if the differential correction stream needs to be output on COM2 at 9600 baud, use:
setCOMSettings,COM2,baud9600 <CR>


To stop transmitting RTCM messages, enter the following command:
setDataInOut,COM2, ,none <CR>


Note that, even in static mode, the receiver computes a PVT solution to estimate the clock bias.

1.5.2 RTK Moving Base Station Mode

   Figure 1-2: Example of a RTK moving-base con?guration where the moving base receives RTCM corrections from a static base and transmits RTCM corrections to the
rover.


To con?gure the receiver in RTK moving base, follow the steps below:

1. The PVT engine must be set in one of the rover modes (standalone, DGNSS, SBAS, RTK). The type of the PVT mode at the moving base station will determine the absolute position accuracy of the RTK rover receiver. On the other hand, the accuracy of the relative position of the rover with respect to the moving base is not in?uenced by the


PVT mode at the moving base station.
For instance, to let the moving base station compute a simple standalone PVT, use the following:
setPVTMode,Rover,StandAlone <CR>

If accurate absolute and relative positioning of the rover is required, the moving base can operate in RTK-rover positioning mode and receive RTCM or CMR corrections from a static base station, as illustrated in Figure 1-2. Refer to section 1.6 to con?gure the moving-base receiver in RTK-rover mode.

2. From now on, follow the same procedure as for a static base station, starting at step 2 of section 1.5.1 and taking into account the following recommendations:
• RTCM v2.x and CMR are not recommended for moving-base applications, always use RTCM v3.x in the link between the moving base and the rover.
• To decrease the effect of extrapolation errors, use a short RTCM or CMR message interval (see the commands setRTCMv3Interval and setCMRv2Interval). In most cases, it is safe to set the interval to its minimum value of 0.1 seconds. If the RTCM or CMR messages are sent through a COM connection, make sure that the baud rate is su?cient to support the high rate. A value of 115200baud is typical.
• In moving base, it is recommended to send the base position and observables at the same rate.
See also section 2.4.3.3 for more details on moving-base operation.


1.6 Configure the Receiver in DGNSS/RTK- Rover Mode
The receiver computes a DGNSS and/or an RTK solution when it receives the relevant dif- ferential correction messages on one of its connections. The list of supported differential correction messages can be found in appendix D.
To con?gure the receiver in DGNSS/RTK-rover mode, the following has to be done:

1. Make sure that at least one of the receiver connections is receiving differential cor- rections. Any input connection listed in section 1.1.5 is suitable. When using a serial connection, make sure to con?gure the baud rate to match the baud rate of the incoming RTCM stream. For instance if the incoming RTCM stream is received through COM2 at a baud rate of 9600 baud, use:
setCOMSettings,COM2,baud9600 <CR>

2. By default, the receiver assumes that the base station is static. If it is moving, enter the following command:
setDiffCorrUsage, , , , ,on <CR>
In DGNSS-rover mode, the base station must be static. Moving base stations are only supported in RTK-rover mode.

3. The receiver automatically detects the format of the differential corrections (RTCM or CMR) and switches between standalone, DGNSS or RTK modes according to the type of corrections it receives, provided these modes are enabled with the setPVTMode command (all modes are enabled by default).
Refer to sections 2.4.2 and 2.4.3 for further details on the DGNSS and RTK positioning mode.


1.7 Determine a GNSS-Based Attitude from the Main and Aux Antennas
The attitude (heading/pitch) can be computed from the orientation of the baseline between the main and the aux1 GNSS antennas. This is illustrated in Figure 1-3.

a) b)



















Figure 1-3: Multi-antenna attitude determination setup. a) default con?guration.
b) alternate con?guration.


To enable multi-antenna attitude determination, follow the following procedure:

1. Attach two antennas to your vehicle, using cables of approximately the same length. The default antenna con?guration is as depicted in Figure 1-3a. It consists in placing the antennas aligned with the longitudinal axis of the vehicle, main antenna behind aux1. For best accuracy, try to maximize the distance between the antennas, and avoid signi?cant height difference between the antenna ARPs. If the con?guration in Figure 1-3a is not feasible, another possibility is to have the antenna baseline per- pendicular to the vehicle, as shown in Figure 1-3b. In that con?guration, an "attitude offset" needs to be provided with the following command:
setAttitudeOffset,90 <CR> if the aux1 antenna is on the right of the main antenna (Figure 1-3b), or
setAttitudeOffset,-90 <CR> if the aux1 antenna is on the left of the main antenna.

2. In practice, the two antenna ARPs may not be exactly at the same height in the vehicle frame, or the main-aux1 baseline may not be exactly parallel or perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle. This leads to offsets in the computed attitude angles. These offsets can be compensated for with the setAttitudeOffset command. For example, if the heading and pitch angles reported by the receiver have an offset of respectively 3 and 4.5 degrees with respect to their expected value, you can have the receiver compensate for them by using the following command (assuming the antennas are in the con?guration of Figure 1-3a):


setAttitudeOffset,3,4.5 <CR>

3. Specify that the attitude has to be computed in multi-antenna mode:
setGNSSAttitude,MultiAntenna <CR>

The GNSS-based attitude angles (heading and pitch) are available in the AttEuler SBF block or in the HDT and HRP NMEA sentences. Note that, in the case where the antenna baseline is perpendicular to the vehicle longitudinal axis, the "pitch" angle is to be interpreted as a "roll" angle.


1.8 Determine a GNSS-Based Attitude from a Moving Base
The heading and pitch of a vehicle can be derived from the orientation of the baseline be- tween a base and a rover antenna when both antennas are attached to the vehicle. The base antenna is connected to a ?rst receiver con?gured as RTK moving base station. The rover antenna is connected to a second receiver con?gured as RTK rover and accepting the RTCM stream from the ?rst receiver. This is illustrated in Figure 1-4.

a) b)
Figure 1-4: Moving-base attitude determination setup. a) default con?guration.
b) example of non-default con?guration.


To enable moving-base attitude determination, follow the following procedure:

1. Attach two antennas to your vehicle. The default antenna con?guration is as depicted in Figure 1-4 a). It consists in placing the antennas aligned with the longitudinal axis of the vehicle. If such con?guration is not possible, you will have to provide additional information to the receiver, as explained below. For best accuracy, try to maximize the distance between the antennas, and avoid signi?cant height difference between them.

2. Connect one of the antennas (preferably the one at the front of the vehicle) to the receiver that will serve as moving base. Connect the other to the receiver that will serve as rover. That latter receiver is the one where the heading and pitch will be computed.

3. Con?gure the moving-base receiver to send RTCM 3.x corrections to the rover. The procedure to do so is explained in section 1.5.2.

4. Con?gure the rover receiver to accept the RTCM corrections from the moving base, by following the steps in section 1.6.

5. By default, the attitude angles are computed assuming that the two antennas are aligned with the longitudinal axis of the vehicle, and that the moving-base antenna is


in front of the rover antenna (see Figure 1-4 a)). If you cannot place the antennas in such con?guration, the reported attitude angles will be biased. There are two ways to remove these biases:
(a) The biases can be removed by telling the receiver where the moving-base an- tenna is located in the vehicle reference frame (see appendix A). This is done by specifying the coordinates of the baseline between the rover antenna reference point (ARP) and the moving-base ARP in the X, Y and Z directions. For example, in the con?guration b) of Figure 1-4, assuming that the distance between the antenna ARPs is 1 meter, you would issue (on the rover receiver): setAntennaLocation,Base,manual,0,1,0 <CR>

(b) Another way to remove the biases is to provide them to the receiver. For exam- ple, if the heading and pitch angles reported by the receiver have an offset of respectively 10 and 12 degrees with respect to their expected value, you can have the receiver compensate for that offset by using the following command: setAttitudeOffset,10,12 <CR>

6. Specify that the attitude has to be computed in moving-base mode by issuing the following command in the rover receiver:
setGNSSAttitude, MovingBase <CR>


The attitude angles are available from the rover receiver in the AttEuler SBF block or in the HDT and HRP NMEA sentences.


1.9 Configure the Receiver in NTRIP Server Mode
In the example below, we show how to con?gure the receiver to send RTCM 3.x corrections to an NTRIP caster using the following parameters:
• NTRIP caster hostname: ntrip.example.com
• NTRIP caster port: 2101
• User name/password for basic authentication: USER / PASSWD
• Mount Point: LEUV1
• TLS: enabled and the caster is trusted by a public certi?cation authority

1. Con?gure one of the NTRIP connections (see section 1.1.5) in server mode for sending data to the NTRIP caster. Here, we assume that the ?rst NTRIP connection (NTR1) is free and can be used for that purpose:
setNTRIPSettings,NTR1,Server,ntrip.example.com,2101,USER,PASSWD,LEUV1
<CR>

2. To enable TLS for NTR1, use:
setNtripTlsSettings,NTR1,on,""  <CR>

3. By default, for RTCM 3.x, the receiver is con?gured to send message types 1004, 1006, 1012 ans 1033 at an interval of one second. This can be changed by using the setRTCMv3Output and setRTCMv3Interval commands. For instance, to change the interval of RTCM1033 to 10 seconds, use:
setRTCMv3Interval,RTCM1033,10  <CR>

4. Enable the output of RTCM 3.x corrections on the NTR1 connection:
setDataInOut,NTR1, ,RTCMv3 <CR>

5. Closing the NTRIP connection is done with the following command:
setNTRIPSettings,NTR1,off <CR>


See also section 1.5 for more information on con?guring the receiver as a base station.

The NTRIP server can also send data to the built-in caster, by specifying "localhost" as host- name. Refer to section 1.11 for details.


1.10 Configure the Receiver in NTRIP Client Mode
In this section, we show how to con?gure the receiver to receive and use RTK corrections from an NTRIP caster. In the example below, the NTRIP caster and Mount Point details are as follows:
• NTRIP caster hostname: ntrip.example.com
• NTRIP caster port: 2101
• User name/password for basic authentication: USER / PASSWD
• Mount Point: LEUV1
• TLS: enabled and the caster is trusted by a public certi?cation authority

1. Con?gure one of the NTRIP connections (see section 1.1.5) for communication with the NTRIP caster in client mode. Here, we assume that the ?rst NTRIP connection (NTR1) is free and can be used for that purpose:
setNTRIPSettings,NTR1,Client,ntrip.example.com,2101,USER,PASSWD,LEUV1
<CR>

2. To enable TLS for NTR1, use:
setNtripTlsSettings,NTR1,on,""  <CR>

3. The receiver will automatically receive and decode the RTK corrections from the NTRIP caster and switch to RTK positioning mode, unless RTK is disabled with the setPVTMode command.
4. Closing the NTRIP connection is done with the following command:
setNTRIPSettings,NTR1,off <CR>


The status of the NTRIP client connection is reported in the NTRIPClientStatus SBF block.


1.11 Use the Built-In NTRIP Caster
The receiver contains an NTRIP caster, which is able to broadcast local data streams originat- ing from the receiver itself, or streams from any remote NTRIP server. The hostname or IP address of the built-in caster is as de?ned in section 1.1.3.

1.11.1 Broadcasting Local Streams
This section explains how to use the built-in NTRIP caster to broadcast a local stream gener- ated by the receiver's own NTRIP server.
1. De?ne the mount point you want to use for streaming the data.  For example, the following command enables the ?rst mount point, gives it the name "MyMP", and specify that this mount point only accepts local streams: setNtripCasterMountPoints, MP1, on, MyMP, No <CR>

2. De?ne the data format. For example, if the mount point de?ned above is meant to stream RTCM v3.x corrections, use the following command: setNtripCasterMPFormat, MP1, RTCMv3 <CR>

3. De?ne the NTRIP client accounts. For example, the command below enables an NTRIP client connecting as user "u1" and with password "p1" to receive data from the ?rst mount point:
setNtripCasterUsers, User1, u1, p1, MP1 <CR>

4. Con?gure the local NTRIP server to send data to the mount point, as explained in sec- tion 1.9. To have the local NTRIP server send data to the built-in caster, the hostname has to be set to "localhost". For example, to send data to the mount point "MyMP" of the caster, use:
setNTRIPSettings,NTR1,Server,localhost, , , ,MyMP <CR>

5. Enable the built-in NTRIP caster:
setNtripCasterSettings, on <CR>


1.11.2 Broadcasting Remote Streams
To con?gure the caster to broadcast a stream originating from a remote NTRIP server, follow the following steps.
1. De?ne the mount point. For example, the following command enables the ?rst mount point, gives it the name "MyMP", and speci?es the credentials that the remote NTRIP server will need to use in order to feed data to this mount point ("FeedUser" and "FeedPwd"):
setNtripCasterMountPoints, MP1, on, MyMP, Yes, FeedUser, FeedPwd <CR>

2. De?ne the stream data format. For example, if the mount point de?ned above is meant to stream RTCM v3.x corrections, use the following command:


setNtripCasterMPFormat, MP1, RTCMv3 <CR>

3. De?ne the NTRIP client accounts. Up to ?ve client accounts can be con?gured. For example, the command below enables an NTRIP client connecting as user "u1" and with password "p1" to receive data from the ?rst mount point: setNtripCasterUsers, User1, u1, p1, MP1 <CR>

4. Enable the built-in NTRIP caster:
setNtripCasterSettings, on <CR>

From now on, the NTRIP caster is ready to receive a data stream from a remote NTRIP server and to distribute it to NTRIP clients.


1.12 Configure an IP Server Port
In this example, we show how to con?gure the receiver such that any client connecting to TCP/IP port 28785 will receive the NMEA GGA message at a 1-second interval.
1. Con?gure one of the IP server connections (see section 1.1.5) to listen to port 28785. Here, we assume that the ?rst IP server connection (IPS1) is free: setIPServerSettings,IPS1,28785,TCP <CR>

2. Output the GGA NMEA message to the IPS1 connection, at a 1-Hz rate:
setNMEAOutput,Stream1,IPS1,GGA,sec1  <CR>

3. Make sure that NMEA output is enabled on the IPS1 connection. It is enabled by default, but in case your receiver is not in its default con?guration, you should invoke: setDataInOut,IPS1, ,+NMEA <CR>

A way to check the IP server functionality is to enter the URL http://mosaic-h-xxxxxxx:28785 in your preferred web browser (replace mosaic-h-xxxxxxx by the hostname of your particular receiver).  You should see the NMEA GGA message coming every second.
Note that up to eight clients can concurrently connect to the same IP server port.

The example above showed how to set up a TCP server. It is also possible to con?gure the receiver in UDP server mode. For example, to broadcast the GGA message to any UDP client listening to its port 28785, the command in step 1. above must be replaced by: setIPServerSettings,IPS1,28785,UDP,255.255.255.255 <CR>

Conversely, the receiver can be con?gured to automatically receive data from an IP server. This is explained in section 1.13.


1.13 Configure an IP Receive Port
The receiver can be con?gured to automatically receive data (typically differential correc- tions) from an IP server. In this example, we show how to connect to an IP server having the hostname MyServer and using port 28786.
1. Con?gure one of the IP receive connections (see section 1.1.5) to listen to port 28786 of MyServer. Here, we assume that the ?rst IP receive connection (IPR1) is free: setIPReceiveSettings,IPR1,28786,TCP2Way,MyServer <CR>

2. If the data stream from the IP server contains differential corrections in CMR or RTCM format, the receiver will automatically decode them and use them in the PVT processing.

3. To close the connection, enter the following command:
setIPReceiveSettings,IPR1,0 <CR>


The TCP connection initiated by the receiver is bidirectional. Once the connection is estab- lished, the receiver accepts input data from the server (as shown above), but it can also send data to the server, or process user commands from the server.
The example showed how to set up a TCP connection with the server. The receiver can also listen to incoming UDP messages. In that case, the connection is unidirectional and the server address or hostname must not be speci?ed. For example, to listen to UDP messages on port 28786, use the command:
setIPReceiveSettings,IPR1,28786,UDP  <CR>


1.14 Log SBF or NMEA
 This section is only applicable to receivers having the internal logging capability (see sec- tion 1.26).
The connection descriptor (see section 1.1.5) associated to the internal disk is "DSK1". En- abling SBF or NMEA logging on the internal disk involves the following steps:
1. By default, the receiver logs SBF blocks into a ?le named "log.sbf" and NMEA sentences into a ?le named "log.nma" . You can specify any other ?xed or auto- incrementing ?le name, or you can select the IGS/RINEX naming convention, where the ?le name automatically changes every ?fteen minutes, hour, six hours or day. For instance, to let the receiver create daily ?les, use:
setFileNaming,DSK1,IGS24H <CR>

If the ?le name you selected already exists, the receiver will append new data at the end of the existing ?le.

2. Use the command setSBFOutput to de?ne which SBF blocks need to be logged (for NMEA, use setNMEAOutput instead), and at which interval (see also section 1.3). For instance, to log all SBF blocks necessary to build RINEX ?les, with the measurements and positions being output at a 10-s interval, use: setSBFOutput,Stream1,DSK1,rinex,sec10 <CR>

3. Start the logging by enabling SBF and NMEA output to the DSK1 connection (it is enabled by default):
setDataInOut,DSK1, ,+SBF+NMEA <CR>

4. Once the logging session is ?nished, stop the logging by invoking:
setDataInOut,DSK1, ,-SBF-NMEA <CR>


Refer to section 1.16 to learn how to download the logged ?les.


 This section is only applicable to receivers having the internal logging capability (see sec- tion 1.26).
The receiver can log RINEX observation and navigation ?les on its internal disk. RINEX v2.11 and 3.04 are supported.
Internal RINEX logging is typically con?gured as follows:

1. The information needed to generate the RINEX ?le names is taken from the setMarkerParameters command. For example, to set the station name desig- nator (the ?rst four characters of the RINEX ?le names) to "LEUV", use: setMarkerParameters, , , , LEUV <CR>

2. The ?elds in the RINEX observation header are speci?ed with the setMarkerParameters, setObserverParameters and setAntennaOffset commands. For example, if the observer's name is "MyName" and its agency is "MyAgency", use the command:
setObserverParameters, MyName, MyAgency <CR>

3. For static installations, the reference marker position to put in the "APPROX POSITION XYZ" header line can be de?ned with the RefPos argument of setPVTMode, with the marker-to-ARP offset being de?ned with setAntennaOffset.	For example, assuming the WGS84 position of the ARP is 50.5o N, 4o E and its altitude above the WGS84 ellipsoid is 100m, and the ARP is 1.5 meters above the marker, use: setStaticPosGeodetic,Geodetic1,50.5,4,100   <CR> setPVTMode, , ,Geodetic1 <CR>
setAntennaOffset,Main,0,0,1.5  <CR>

4. Use the setRINEXLogging command to specify the ?le duration (?fteen minutes, one hour, six hours or one day), the observation interval and the type of observables to include in the RINEX ?le. For example, to generate daily RINEX ?les with the observation ?le containing only GPS L1CA data at a 30-s interval, use:
setRINEXLogging, DSK1, Hour24, sec30, GPSL1CA <CR>
In this command, DSK1 refers to the internal disk.

5. The command setDiskFullAction speci?es what to do when the internal disk becomes full. For example, you could ask the receiver to automatically delete the oldest ?le to free up disk space. To do so, use:
setDiskFullAction, DeleteOldest <CR>


Instead of logging RINEX ?les inside the receiver, you can also convert an SBF ?le to RINEX using the sbf2rin program or the SBFConverter graphical tool.


1.16 Download Log Files from the Receiver
 This section is only applicable to receivers having the internal logging capability (see sec- tion 1.26).
There are different ways to download or delete ?les from the internal disk:

1. Using RxControl. Select Logging > Download Internal Files to download ?les to your com- puter, and Logging > Remove Internal File to remove a ?le from the internal disk.

Figure 1-5: Download Internal Files from RxControl.

2. Using FTP or SFTP. The hostname or ?xed IP address is de?ned as explained in sec- tion 1.1.3. For example, if your receiver's hostname is mosaic-h-1234567, you can type the following URL in your preferred web browser to open a session as anonymous user:
ftp://mosaic-h-1234567

User authentication for SFTP access can be done by entering a password or us- ing an ssh public key, as de?ned with the setUserAccessLevel command.
By default, anonymous users can download and delete ?les. This can be changed as explained in section 1.24.

3. Using rsync. If an rsync client is available on your computer, you can use rsync to download ?les or directories from the receiver. The hostname or IP address is the same as for (S)FTP, see above.

For example, to download the contents of the log.sbf ?le of the internal disk (DSK1) to the current folder on your local computer, you could invoke rsync as follows:


rsync -r anonymous@mosaic-h-1234567:DSK1/SSN/GRB0051/log.sbf . when prompted for a password, just press the enter key as no password is required for anonymous accesses.

If the same command is issued again at a later stage, rsync will only transfer the deltas with respect to the ?les already present on the local machine, signi?cantly reducing the number of bytes sent compared to retransmitting the entire ?les.

User authentication can be done by entering a password, or using an ssh public key, as de?ned with the setUserAccessLevel command.
By default, rsync is enabled for anonymous users. This can be changed with the
setDefaultAccessLevel command.

4. Using the web interface (select the Logging tab).

5. Using a standard ?le browser and accessing the receiver as a removable drive (USB mass-storage device). This requires the USB cable to be connected to your computer, and the internal disk to be unmounted by the receiver so that it can be accessed by your computer's operating system. This can be done automatically upon connecting the USB cable, as con?gured with the setUMSDOnConnect command.


1.17 FTP Push Log files
 This section is only applicable to receivers having the internal logging capability (see sec- tion 1.26).
It is possible to con?gure the receiver to automatically send internally-logged ?les to a re- mote FTP server (FTP Push). This is done with the setFTPPushSBF and setFTPPushRINEX commands respectively.
For example, to automatically FTP RINEX ?les to the directory mydata/rin/YYDDD (with YY and DDD the year and day-of-year) on the remote server myftp.com, with username myname and password mypwd, you would enter the following command: setFTPPushRINEX, myftp.com, mydata/rin/%y%j, myname, mypwd <CR>

To FTP push SBF ?les to the same location, you would use:
setFTPPushSBF, myftp.com, mydata/rin/%y%j, myname, mypwd <CR>


FTP push will create the folder on the remote server if it does not exist yet.


1.18 Communicate with External Equipment
The receiver can send periodical queries to external equipment (such as a meteo sensor) connected to one of its serial ports, and log the replies from that sensor. In the following example, we show how to retrieve meteo data every 10 seconds from a meteo sensor con- nected to the receiver's COM2 port.
1. Tell the receiver which command to use to query the external sensor, and the interval at which this command must be sent to the sensor. For instance, for a MET3/MET4- compatible sensor, the command *0100P9<CR><LF> queries the meteo data. Assuming you want to get meteo data at a 10-second interval, enter the following command:
setPeriodicEcho, com2, A:*0100P9%%CR%%LF, sec10 <CR>

2. Enable unformatted ASCII input on COM2 (to receive the replies from the meteo sensor):
setDataInOut,COM2,ASCIIIn <CR>


The replies from the meteo sensor (containing the temperature, pressure and humidity) are available in the ASCIIIn SBF block.
You can convert an SBF ?le containing ASCIIIn SBF blocks to RINEX using the sbf2rin program or the SBFConverter graphical tool. To be able to generate a RINEX ?le, the output of the meteo sensor must be formatted according to the NMEA XDR sentence.


1.19 Generate a "Pulse Per Second" Signal
The receiver is able to generate an x-pulse-per-second (xPPS) signal aligned with a selected GNSS system time, with UTC or with the internal receiver time.
The setPPSParameters command is used to set the xPPS parameters (rate, polarity, time system, ...). For instance, to synchronize the xPPS pulses with UTC and have one pulse every ten seconds, use:
setPPSParameters,sec10, , ,UTC <CR>



True PPS position

PPS as generated by receiver










Figure 1-6: xPPS output granularity.


Although the position of the PPS pulse is computed accurately by the receiver, the actual pulse is generated at the nearest "tick" of the internal receiver digital clock, as illustrated in the ?gure above. This leaves an offset (noted "D" in the ?gure) between the true xPPS pulse and the one actually generated by the receiver. This offset can reach a few nanoseconds. It is available in real-time in the xPPSOffset SBF block.
To be able to align its xPPS output with the GNSS system time, the receiver needs a fresh estimate of the GNSS time from its PVT solution. If the last PVT solution is older than a pre- scribed timeout (set by the setPPSParameters command), no PPS pulse is generated. In addition, to align its PPS with UTC, the receiver needs to have received the UTC offset param- eters from the satellite navigation messages. If these parameters are not available and the user has requested to align the xPPS with UTC, no xPPS pulse is generated.


1.20 Time Tag External Events
The receiver can time-tag electrical level transitions on its EventX inputs with an accuracy of 20ns.
By default,	the receiver reacts on low-to-high transitions.	You can use the setEventParameters command to react on falling edges instead: setEventParameters,EventA,High2Low <CR>

Upon detection of a transition, the receiver can output the time and/or the position at the instant of the event (see for example the ExtEvent SBF block).
The following constraints must be observed to ensure proper event detection:
• There must be no more than 20 events in any interval of 100 milliseconds, all event pins considered.
• The minimum time between two events on the same EventX input must be at least
5ms.

Missed events are ?agged by the MISSEDEVENT bit in the ReceiverStatus SBF block.


1.21 Monitor the RF Spectrum
You can monitor the RF spectrum using the spectral analyzer in RxControl (go to the View > Spectral View menu) or in the web interface (go to the GNSS > Spectrum menu). This allows to detect the presence of interferences in the GNSS bands.
In the example shown below, a narrowband interference at 1180 MHz is clearly visible.

Figure 1-7: Spectral Analyser functionality of RxControl.


The spectrum is computed from baseband samples taken at the output of the receiver's ana- log to digital converters. These samples are available to the users in the BBSamples SBF block.


1.22 Detect Spoofing Attacks
The receiver continuously checks various parameters to ensure the integrity and authentic- ity of the received GNSS signals. It also performs Navigation Message Authentication (NMA) using Galileo OSNMA. The outcome of those checks is available in the Flags ?eld of the RFStatus SBF block, and is also reported as an icon in the header of each page of the web interface. For instance, the plot below shows a red "Spoo?ng!" icon, indicating spoo?ng sus- picion.



The following guidelines are suggested to maximize the probability of detecting a spoo?ng attack:
• Make sure that the antenna net gain (antenna LNA gain minus cable loss) is within the operating range of the receiver, as speci?ed in the Hardware Manual. In particular, the automatic gain control (AGC) gain should be lower than 50dB for all frequency bands. The AGC gain can be checked in RxControl (View > AGC Table) or in the web interface (GNSS > Spectrum > Status).

• Make sure that the AGC is in automatic mode. This is the default, but in case the receiver is not in its default con?guration, you can enable auto-AGC mode with: setAGCMode,all,auto <CR>

• Numerous spoo?ng detectors are based on cross-frequency and cross-constellation consistency checks. For optimal detection, it is therefore preferred to enable the tracking of all GNSS satellites and signals, at the cost of a slight increase of the CPU load:
setSignalTracking,all <CR> setSatelliteTracking,all <CR>

• Additional checks are enabled for static receivers. If the receiver is known to be static, it is a good idea to con?gure it explicitly in static mode:
setPVTMode,Static <CR>

• If the receiver is connected to the Internet, it is recommended to enable its built-in NTP client to get access to an independent time source. For example, to enable time retrieval from the default NTP server, use:
setNTPClient,on,default

• Enable Galileo OSNMA following the instructions in section 1.23.


1.23 Use Galileo OSNMA
With the Open Service Navigation Message Authentication (OSNMA) feature, Galileo satellites allow to verify the authenticity of navigation messages received from GNSS satellites, offering a powerful means to detect and counter spoo?ng attacks.
In Septentrio receivers, OSNMA is used to discard untrusted satellites from the PVT compu- tation. Three operating modes are supported: off where OSNMA authentication is disabled, loose where satellites are included in the PVT if they are successfully authenticated or if their authentication status is unknown, and strict where only successfully-authenticated satellites are included in the PVT.
In strict mode, the number of satellites available to the PVT may be limited as OSNMA does not authenticate all visible satellites (e.g. only Galileo satellites depending on the OSNMA service status).
After enabling OSNMA (in loose or strict mode), it typically takes a few tens of seconds to a few minutes to authenticate messages. In strict mode, no PVT is computed during that time.

OSNMA is con?gured as follows:

1. Use the setGalOSNMAUsage command to enable OSNMA authentication. For exam- ple, to enable OSNMA in loose mode, use:
setGalOSNMAUsage, loose <CR>

2. In strict mode, OSNMA authentication requires the availability of external time infor- mation. In loose mode, this is optional but recommended for enhanced security. The receiver can connect to an NTP time server for this purpose, as con?gured with the setNTPClient command. For example, to enable time retrieval from the default NTP server, use:
setNTPClient, on, default

The receiver has been optimized for use with live Galileo signals. Necessary keys are em- bedded into the software. For example the Galileo Merkle Tree root key, needed to enable over-the-air reception of public keys, is known by the receiver, obviating the need for the user to provide it.
Refer to section 2.6 for further details.


1.24 Manage Users
When connecting to the receiver, users can remain "anonymous", or can log in using the login command. What anonymous users can do depends on the connection type. By default, anonymous users have full control of the receiver. This default con?gura- tion can be changed with the setDefaultAccessLevel command. For example, to prevent anonymous access to the web interface and to the FTP server, you would use: setDefaultAccessLevel, none, none <CR>

To perform actions not allowed to anonymous users, you ?rst need to authenticate your- self by entering a user name and a password through the login command. The list of user names and passwords and their respective access level is managed with the setUserAccessLevel command. Login fails if the provided user name or password is not in that list.
Logged-in users are granted one of the following access levels: "User" or "Viewer". The "User" level allows full control of the receiver, while the "Viewer" level only allows to view the con?guration.
The following explains how to add or delete a user.

1. Check the current user list by entering the following command:
getUserAccessLevel <CR>
The reply to this command looks like:
UserAccessLevel, User1, "admin", "R46NCG", User UserAccessLevel, User2, "", "", Viewer UserAccessLevel, User3, "", "", Viewer
...

2. In the example shown above, only one user is de?ned: User1 with user name admin. For security reasons, the password shown here (R46NCG) is random and does not cor- respond to the actual password. It can be seen that the level of access of the admin user is "User": that particular user has full control of the receiver.
To add a new user "john" with password "abc123" and to give full access to that user, select a free user index, e.g. User2 in the above example, and type: setUserAccessLevel,User2,john,abc123,User <CR>

3. You can add up to eight users in this way. Deleting a user involves entering an empty string ("") as user name and password. For example, to delete the "admin" user from the above list, use:
setUserAccessLevel,User1,"",""  <CR>

The user list also applies to FTP, SFTP and rsync accesses. Users having the "User" access right are allowed to delete ?les from the internal disk via FTP, SFTP or rsync, while "Viewer" users can only download ?les.


1.25 Upgrade the Receiver
Upgrading the receiver is the process of installing a new GNSS ?rmware, a new permission ?le (see section 1.27) or a new antenna calibration ?le (see section 2.5).
 In some cases, upgrading the GNSS ?rmware can clear the receiver con?guration stored in non-volatile memory (see section 1.4). It is therefore advised to recheck the con?guration after the upgrade.
 Do not switch power off during the upgrade procedure.
 Upgrading the receiver over a serial port can be very slow and it is recommended to upgrade using a faster connection whenever possible (USB or Ethernet).
Septentrio upgrade ?les have the extension ".suf". There are several ways to upgrade the receiver:
1. By double clicking the ".suf" ?le. This should launch the RxUpgrade program.
2. By using the RxControl graphical interface (go to the File menu).
3. From the web interface (go to Admin >Upgrade). This requires to log in as a user with the "User" access level (see section 1.24).
4. By commanding the receiver to upgrade itself by fetching the upgrade ?le from a re- mote FTP server. This is done with the command exeFTPUpgrade.
5. By manually downloading upgrade ?les to the receiver. This upgrade procedure is ex-
plained below.

To manually upgrade the receiver, follow this procedure:

1. Reset the receiver into upgrade mode by entering the following command:
exeResetReceiver, Upgrade, none <CR>

2. Wait till the receiver outputs the string: "Ready for SUF download ...". From that moment on, the receiver is waiting for an upgrade ?le to be downloaded. The ?le download must start within 200 seconds, otherwise the receiver will restart in normal mode.

3. Download the upgrade ?le to the receiver. Any of the receiver connections can be used. Make sure to send the ?le in binary mode, i.e. without changing its contents. During the download, the receiver outputs a progress indicator at regular interval.

4. At the end of the download, the receiver automatically executes the upgrade instruc- tions and restarts with the new ?rmware version. You can check the ?rmware version by entering the following command:
lif,Identification <CR>

Before executing the upgrade instructions, the receiver checks the integrity of the down- loaded ?le. If the ?le is corrupted, or is not a valid upgrade ?le, the receiver discards it and restarts in normal mode.
If the download is interrupted for any reason, the receiver will restart in normal mode after a timeout period of 200 seconds.


1.26 Check the Capabilities of your Receiver
The capabilities of your receiver are de?ned by the set of enabled features. The capabilities depend on the hardware, the current ?rmware version and the current set of permissions. Permissions are further explained in section 1.27.
The command getReceiverCapabilities lists the capabilities. You can also check them using the web interface (go to Admin >About >Permitted Capabilities) or RxControl (go to Help
>Receiver Interface and select the Permitted Capabilites tab):

Figure 1-9: Example of receiver capabilities.


1.27 Check or Change the Permission File
The permission ?le lists which optional features (such as GLONASS, Galileo, RTK, ...) are per- mitted on your receiver, for how long they are permitted and in which region they are per- mitted.
The permission ?le is stored in the receiver's non-volatile memory, and can be checked with the command lstInternalFile, Permissions, or with RxControl by clicking Help >Re- ceiver Permissions.
Note that, for a given feature to be enabled in the receiver, it must be permitted and the hardware and ?rmware version must support it. See also section 1.26.
Each receiver is delivered with a permission ?le applicable to that receiver only. To enable new options, the user can order a new permission ?le to Septentrio, and install it on his/her receiver using the standard upgrade procedure (see section 1.25).









Chapter 2

Operation Details

This chapter describes the key processes implemented in the receiver and explains how they can be con?gured.

2.1 Channel Allocation and Signal Selection
The receiver automatically allocates satellites to tracking channels up to the limit of the num- ber of channels. It is possible to override this automatic channel allocation by forcing a satel- lite to a given channel with the setChannelAllocation command. Also, a subset of satel- lites or a whole constellation can be disabled with the setSatelliteTracking command.
For each satellite, the receiver tries to track all signal types enabled with the setSignalTracking command. For example, if that command enables the GPSL1CA, GPSL2PY and GLOL1CA signals, GPS satellites will be tracked in dual-frequency mode (GPSL1CA and GPSL2PY) and GLONASS satellites will be tracked in single-frequency mode (GLOL1CA only). It is a good practice to only enable those signal types that are needed for your application to avoid wasting tracking channels.

2.2 Generation of Measurements
For each tracked GNSS signal, the receiver generates a "measurement set", mainly consisting of the following observables:
• a pseudorange in meters;
• a carrier phase in cycles;
• a Doppler in Hertz;
• a carrier-to-noise ratio in dB-Hz.

All data in a measurement set, and all measurement sets are taken at the same time, which is referred to as the "measurement epoch". All the measurement sets taken at a given mea- surement epoch are output in a MeasEpoch SBF block.
Several commands affect the way the receiver produces and outputs measurements:


• The setHealthMask command can be used to ?lter out measurements from un- healthy satellites: these measurements will not be used by the PVT algorithm, nor will they be included in the MeasEpoch SBF block.
• To further reduce the code measurement noise, the receiver can be ordered to smooth the pseudorange by the carrier phase. This technique, sometimes referred to as a "Hatch ?ltering", allows to reduce the pseudorange noise and multipath. It is controlled by the setSmoothingInterval command and is disabled by default.
• The setMultipathMitigation command can be used to enable or disable the mit-
igation of multipath errors on the pseudorange and carrier phase measurements. It is enabled by default.
For advanced applications or in-depth signal analysis, the MeasExtra SBF block contains various additional data complementing the MeasEpoch SBF block. Among other things, this block reports the multipath correction applied to the pseudorange (allowing one to recom- pute the original pseudorange), and the observable variances.

2.2.1 Pilot vs. Data Component
Most modern GNSS signals consist of two components: a so-called pilot component and a data component. For such signals, the measurements are based on the pilot component for optimal performance. In particular, the reported C/No value is that of the pilot component only.
For all signals having a pilot and a data component, the table below indicates which com- ponent is tracked by Septentrio receivers. Note that your particular receiver model may not support all of these signals.

SignalSignal component being used for measurement generationGPS/QZSS L1CL1C-PGPS/QZSS L2CL2C-LGPS/QZSS L5L5-QGLONASS L3L3-QGalileo E1E1-CGalileo E6E6-C or E6-B if E6-C is encryptedGalileo E5aE5a-QGalileo E5bE5b-QGalileo E5AltBOCE5AltBOC-QBeiDou B1CB1C_pilotBeiDou B2aB2a_pilotBeiDou B2bB2b_I
See also the corresponding RINEX observation code in section 4.1.10.


2.3 Time Management
The receiver time is kept in two counters: the time-of-week counter in integer milliseconds (TOW) and the week number counter (WNc). TOW and WNc follow the GPS convention, i.e. WNc counts the number of complete weeks elapsed since January 6, 1980, and there are no leap seconds. The TOW and WNc counters are reported in all SBF blocks.
The synchronization of TOW and WNc involves the following steps:

• Upon powering up the receiver, TOW and WNc are assumed unknown, and set to a "Do-Not-Use value" in the SBF blocks.
• The transmission time-of-week and week number are decoded from the GNSS satellites (all constellations considered, not only GPS):
- As soon as the ?rst time-of-week is decoded, the TOW counter is initialized to within 20 ms of GPS time and starts counting. This is also the time when the re- ceiver starts generating GNSS measurements (pseudoranges and carrier phases).
- As soon as the week number is decoded (which can be either simultaneously with the time-of-week, or several seconds later), the WNc counter is set and starts counting.
• After the ?rst position and time ?x has been computed (for which measurements from at least 4 satellites are required), TOW is set to within X milliseconds of GPS time. This is done by introducing a jump of an integer number of milliseconds in the TOW counter. X is the maximal allowed offset between the receiver time and GPS time, and is set by the setClockSyncThreshold command (by default, X=0.5ms). This initial clock synchronization leads to a simultaneous jump in all the pseudorange and carrier phase measurements.
The synchronization level is given by three status bits (TOWSET, WNSET and FINETIME) avail- able both in the ReceiverTime SBF block and the ReceiverStatus SBF block. Once the FINETIME bit is set, it remains set until the next reset of the receiver.
The receiver clock can be con?gured in free-running mode, or in steered mode using the command setClockSyncThreshold.

2.3.1 Free-Running Clock
In free-running mode, the receiver time slowly drifts with respect to GNSS time. The re- ceiver continuously monitors this time offset: this is the clock bias term computed in the PVT solution, as provided in the RxClkBias ?eld of the PVTCartesian and PVTGeodetic SBF blocks. A clock jump of an integer number of milliseconds is imposed on the receiver clock each time the clock bias exceeds X milliseconds by an absolute value (X is set by setClockSyncThreshold). This typically results in a saw-tooth pro?le similar to that shown in Figure 2-1. In this example, X=0.5ms and each time the clock bias becomes greater than 0.5ms, a jump of 1ms is applied.


0.5





0




-0.5
0	0.5	1	1.5	2	2.5	3	3.5	4
Up Time [hours]

Figure 2-1: Example of the evolution of the receiver time offset with respect to the GNSS time in free-running mode.


Note that the clock bias is computed with respect to a particular GNSS time system (GPS, Galileo, BeiDou, ...) as set with the setTimingSystem command. The time offset between those systems is at the level of a few tens of nanoseconds only, and is ignored when applying the X-millisecond threshold.
When a receiver clock jump occurs, all measurements jump simultaneously. For example, a clock jump of 1ms will cause all the pseudoranges to jump by 0.001s * velocity_of_light = 299792.458m. The jump is applied on both the pseudoranges and the carrier phase mea- surements, and hence will not be seen on a code-minus-phase plot.
The cumulated clock jumps since the last reset of the receiver is reported in the
CumClkJumps ?eld of the MeasEpoch SBF block.

2.3.2 Clock Steering
In steered mode, the receiver time is continuously steered to a GNSS time. The particular time realization (GPS, Galileo, BeiDou, ...) is generally irrelevant as the difference is very small. It can be selected with the setTimingSystem command if needed.
In the example of Figure 2-1, if the user would have enabled clock steering one hour after start up of the receiver, the clock bias would have been like in Figure 2-2 below.

0.5





0




-0.5
0	0.5	1	1.5	2	2.5	3	3.5	4
Up Time [hours]

Figure 2-2: Effect of clock steering on the clock bias (clock steering enabled at an
up time of 1 hour).


Clock steering accuracy is dependent on the satellite visibility, and it is recommended to only enable it under open-sky conditions.
Bit 3 of the CommonFlags ?eld of the MeasEpoch SBF block indicates whether clock steering is active or not.
 Note for the users of a GNSS constellation simulator:

When using a constellation simulator, and if the only simulated signals are the legacy L1 and L2 GPS and GLONASS signals, make sure to set the simulation time after December 31, 2019. The receiver time will be incorrect before that date.
For correct time determination, it is mandatory to reset the receiver before every (re)start of the simulation.

2.4 Computation of Position,	Velocity,	and Time (PVT Solution)
The receiver computes the position, velocity and time (PVT) based on the pseudoranges, the Doppler measurements and, if applicable, the differential corrections.
The availability of the PVT depends on:

• the number of available pseudoranges and Doppler measurements, equal to the num- ber of tracked satellites, or a subset of them as speci?ed by the setSatelliteUsage command;
• the number of valid sets of broadcast ephemerides, which are needed to compute the position, velocity, and clock bias for each tracked satellite;
• the number of valid sets of fast and long-term SBAS corrections and their age in the case of SBAS-aided positioning;
• the number of valid differential corrections and their age in the case of DGNSS/RTK positioning.
A position ?x requires a minimum of 4 tracked satellites with associated ephemerides. When a PVT solution is not available, PVT-related SBF blocks are still output with all the numeric ?elds set to Do-Not-Use values, and with the Error ?eld set to indicate the source of the problem.
The accuracy of the PVT depends on:

• The signal level.
• The geometry of the satellite constellation expressed in the DOP values: these values indicate the ratio of positional errors to range errors and are computed on the basis of the error propagation theory. When the DOP is high, the accuracy of positioning will be low.
• The number of available satellites: the more satellites are available, the lower the DOP. Measurement redundancy also enables better outlier detection.
• Multipath errors on the pseudorange measurements:  multipath errors can be largely attenuated by enabling the APME multipath mitigation method (see setMultipathMitigation) and/or using code smoothing (see setSmoothingInterval).
• The PVT mode as set by the setPVTMode command.


• The data available to compute ionospheric delays (see setIonosphereModel).
• The choice of the dynamics model: if the dynamics parameter set by the setReceiverDynamics command does not correspond to the actual dynamics of the receiver platform, the position estimation will be sub-optimal.
The a-posteriori accuracy estimate of the computed position is reported in the variance- covariance matrix, which comes in the PosCovCartesian and PosCovGeodetic SBF blocks. This accuracy estimate is based on the assumed measurement noise model and may differ from actual errors due to many external factors, most of all multipath.

2.4.1 SBAS Positioning
SBAS, which stands for 'Space Based Augmentation System', enables differential operation over a large area with associated integrity information. System errors are computed from a dataset recorded over a continental area and disseminated via a geostationary satellite. The operation of SBAS is documented in the RTCA DO 229 standard. SBAS improves over DGNSS corrections, in that it provides system corrections (ionosphere corrections and ephemeris long-term corrections) next to range corrections (the "fast corrections" in the DO 229 termi- nology).
The receiver provides an SBAS-aided position when it has su?cient satellites with at least fast and long-term corrections. The corrections are used as long as their applicability has not timed out. During the time-out interval the receiver applies correction degradation using the information received in message type (MT) 07 and 10.
By default, the receiver selects the SBAS satellite with the most SBAS corrections available. With the setSBASCorrections command, it is possible to force the receiver to use a par- ticular SBAS satellite or a particular SBAS provider.

2.4.2 DGNSS Positioning
DGNSS (Differential GNSS) is a pseudorange-based positioning technique where GNSS sys- tem errors are reduced by the use of range corrections. To work in DGNSS rover mode, the receiver needs to receive differential corrections in the RTCM or CMR format.
Note on the RTCM v2.x corrections: the receiver takes the tgd parameter transmitted by the GPS satellites into account during the computation of the pseudorange corrections, as prescribed in v2.2 and v2.3 of the RTCM standard. The RTCM standard version 2.1 is ambigu- ous in this respect: it does neither prescribe nor discourage the use of tgd . The receiver can be con?gured in both modes using the command setRTCMv2Compatibility.

2.4.3 RTK Positioning
Real-Time Kinematic (RTK) is a carrier phase positioning method where the carrier phase ambiguities are estimated in a kinematic mode.
To work in RTK mode, the receiver requires the reception of RTK messages. Both the RTCM and the CMR message formats are supported. The base station providing these RTK mes-


sages can be either static or moving. Multiple-base RTK is not supported: by default, the receiver selects the nearest base station if more than one base station is available.
In RTK mode, the absolute position is reported in the PVTCartesian or PVTGeodetic SBF blocks, and the baseline vector is reported in the BaseVectorCart and BaseVectorGeod SBF blocks.

2.4.3.1 Integer Ambiguities (RTK-fixed)
The key to high-accuracy carrier phase positioning is the ?xing of the carrier phase integer ambiguities. Under normal circumstances the receiver will compute the integer ambiguities within several seconds and yield an RTK-?xed solution with centimeter-level accuracy. The less accurate pseudorange measurements will not be used. As long as no cycle slips or loss- of-lock events occurs, the carrier phase position is readily available.
RTK with ?xed ambiguities is also commonly referred to as phase positioning using 'On-The- Fly' (OTF) ambiguity ?xing. The RTK positioning engine of the receiver uses the LAMBDA method(1) developed at Delft University, department of Geodesy.

2.4.3.2 Floating Ambiguities (RTK-float)
When data availability is low (e.g. low number of satellites) or when the data are not of suf- ?cient quality (high multipath), the receiver will not ?x the carrier phase ambiguities to their integer value, but will keep them ?oating. At the start of the RTK-?oat convergence process, the position accuracy is equal to that of code-based DGNSS. Over the course of several min- utes the positional accuracy will converge from several decimeters to several centimeters as the ?oating ambiguities become more accurate.

2.4.3.3 Moving Base
In RTK, the base station does not necessarily need to be static. In some applications, one is interested in the relative positioning of two moving vehicles. In that case, both base and rover receivers are mounted on moving platforms and the RTK engine computes the base- line between them. If both base and rover receivers are mounted on the same vehicle, the baseline can be used to determine the orientation of the vehicle (see section 1.8). If accurate absolute positioning is required in addition to relative positioning, the moving base receiver can operate in RTK mode and get RTK correction from a ?xed base station (see section 1.5.2).
With the command setDiffCorrUsage, the rover receiver must be informed that the base is moving. The baseline coordinates and orientation is contained in the BaseVectorCart and BaseVectorGeod SBF blocks.
Due to delays in the generation and transmission of the RTK data (base station position and measurements) from the base to the rover, the RTK data has a certain "age" when received by the rover. When operating with a moving base station, the RTK engine is of the "low-latency" type. This means that, when the rover computes its RTK position at time t0, it extrapolates the
(1) Teunissen, P.J.G., and C.C.J.M. Tiberius (1994) Integer least-squares estimation of the GPS phase ambiguities. Proceedings of International Symposium on Kinematic Systems in Geodesy, Geomatics and Navigation KIS'94, Banff, Canada, August 30-September 2, pp. 221-231.


most recently received RTK data from the base to time t0. The accuracy of this extrapolation, and hence the accuracy of the ?nal RTK solution, degrades with the age of the RTK data. Therefore it is essential that the base sends its position and measurements at a su?cient rate.
The default rate of 1 Hz is adequate in the case of a static base station, but is generally too low for a moving base with a non-constant velocity. In moving base operation, it is recommended to set the RTK data rate to its maximum allowed value of 10 Hz. Not only the RTK data rate, but also the communication link latency is important. Especially in moving base, it is essential to have a low-latency communication link between base and rover.

2.4.4 Transition between PVT Modes
Whenever possible, the transitions from a more accurate PVT mode to a less accurate PVT mode are smooth. For example, when switching from RTK to DGNSS mode, the position does not exhibit a sudden jump, but slowly degrades from RTK to DGNSS accuracy.

2.4.5 PVT Latency



Figure 2-3: PVT latency.


The total PVT latency is the delay between the time of applicability of the PVT (t0) and its availability to the user application (t0+dP). It is the sum of the PVT processing time, the output data encoding time, and the time needed to transmit the data over the communication link. The processing and encoding time (dL) is measured by the receiver and is reported in the Latency ?eld of the PVTCartesian and PVTGeodetic SBF blocks. The communication latency (grey and yellow bars) entirely depends on the communication link and is unknown to the receiver. Serial ports con?gured at high baud rate generally yield the shortest latency. When transferring data over IP, latency can be reduced by operating in UDP mode (see the setIPServerSettings command).
The shortest total PVT latency is obtained when the receiver only needs to output PVT data (e.g. only the PVTCartesian SBF block). Latency increases when more data need to be output. Note that the receiver always outputs raw measurements, e.g. the MeasEpoch SBF block, before PVT data. Therefore, when using slow communication links, enabling the mea- surement output can have a signi?cant impact on the total PVT latency.

2.4.6 Datum Transformation
By default the datum to which the coordinates refer depends on the positioning mode. For standalone and SBAS positioning for example, the coordinates refer to a global datum:


WGS84 or ITRS. When using DGNSS or RTK corrections from a DGNSS/RTK provider, the co- ordinates usually refer to a regional datum (e.g. ETRS89 in Europe).
Recent realisations of WGS84 and ITRS are closely aligned and the difference can be neglected in most cases. The receiver considers them equivalent. However, regional datums may signif- icantly differ from WGS84/ITRS, which may lead to coordinate jumps when switching between different positioning modes.

2.4.6.1 Transformation to Regional Datum
It is possible to avoid this datum shift by con?guring the receiver to transform all co- ordinates to the regional datum used by the RTK base stations. This is done with the setGeodeticDatum command. The receiver knows the transformation parameters appli- cable to the most common datums (e.g. ETRS89 or NAD83), but user datums can also be de?ned with the setUserDatum command.
Coordinates in the PVTCartesian and PVTGeodetic SBF blocks refer to the datum se- lected in setGeodeticDatum. The datum can be checked by decoding the Datum ?eld of these blocks.

2.4.6.2 Transformation to Local Datum
Sometimes it is needed to relate the coordinates to a local datum. Some RTK networks pro- vide the necessary transformation and projection parameters as part of their RTCM stream, in message types 1021 to 1027.
The local geodetic coordinates (latitude, longitude and height) are reported in the PosLocal SBF block, and the plane grid coordinates (easting, northing, height) are reported in the PosProjected SBF block.
The following conditions must be met for the receiver to provide local coordinates from the information sent by the RTK network:
• the usage of RTCM v3.x MT1021-1027 must be enabled by the command
setRTCMv3Usage (these messages are enabled by default).
• the  local  coordinate  operations  must  be  set  to  NETWORK with  the
setLocalCoordOperation command (this is the default).
• the complete set of datum transformation messages must have been received from the network. Plane grid coordinates are only available if the network supports one of the messages in the 1025-1027 range. Otherwise, only the local latitude, longitude and height are available.
• the position must be in the area of validity of the transformation parameters.
• to continue to get unbiased local coordinates when the positioning mode is not DGNSS or RTK, the network regional datum must be set with the setGeodeticDatum com- mand. See section 2.4.6.1.
A number of local datum transformations are preloaded in the receiver (the list can be re- trieved with the lstLocalCoordOperations command). If your local datum belongs to this list, local coordinates can be computed without information from the RTK network. See the setLocalCoordOperation command for details.


2.5 Antenna Effects
To achieve the highest positioning precision, it is essential to take antenna effects into ac- count.

PC
















Figure 2-4: Antenna mount.


The GNSS measurements (pseudoranges and carrier phases observables) refer to a theoret- ical point in space called the phase center (noted PC in Figure 2-4). The position of this point is dependent on the elevation of the satellite and on the frequency band. It varies with time and it is different for the different GNSS frequency bands. The phase center variation can reach a few centimeters.
If no correction is applied, the computed position refers to an average phase center with no easy link with the antenna physical element. This average phase center ?uctuates with time and cannot be used for accurate millimeter-level positioning.
For high-precision positioning, the GNSS measurements need to be corrected in such a way that they all refer to a common and stable point in space. That point is referred to as the antenna reference point (ARP). For convenience, it is usually selected at the center of the bottom surface of the antenna. PC to ARP calibration tables are available on Internet for a large number of geodetic-grade antennas. For example, the National Geodetic Survey (NGS) publishes calibration tables that can be downloaded from the following URL: https://www.ngs.noaa.gov/ANTCAL/.
The antenna naming convention in such table is the one adopted by the IGS Central Bureau.

The receiver has a similar table in its non-volatile memory. This table can be upgraded fol- lowing the standard upgrade procedure as described in section 1.25 (the upgrade ?le name starts with mosaic-H AntInfo).

2.5.1 Antenna Effects in Rover Mode
If the user speci?es the type of his/her antenna using the setAntennaOffset command, the receiver compensates for the phase center variation in all rover positioning modes. If the antenna is not speci?ed, or the antenna type is not present in the built-in antenna calibration


?le, the receiver cannot make the distinction between phase center and ARP, and the position accuracy is slightly degraded, especially in the height component.
The point to be positioned is the "marker" (see Figure 2-4). The offset between the ARP and the marker is a function of the antenna monumentation. It must be measured by the user and speci?ed with the setAntennaOffset command.
The absolute position reported in the PVTCartesian and PVTGeodetic SBF blocks is al- ways the marker position.
In DGNSS or RTK modes, the receiver needs to know the type of antenna used at the base station in order to properly compensate for the phase center variation at the base. This information is typically included in the correction stream received from the base station.
The base-to-rover baseline coordinates in the BaseVectorCart and BaseVectorGeod SBF blocks is from ARP to ARP unless the receiver is not able to properly compensate for the phase center variation at base or rover. Refer to the description of the BaseVectorCart SBF blocks for details.

2.5.2 Antenna Effects in Base Mode
Phase center compensation always happens at the rover side. The base station sends un- compensated measurements in its differential correction messages, together with its ARP position and antenna type. The antenna type information allows the rover to apply the ap- propriate phase center compensation to the base measurements.
When setting up a base station, it is therefore important that the coordinates entered with the setStaticPosGeodetic or the setStaticPosCartesian commands refer to the ARP. The coordinates are encoded without change in the relevant differential correction mes- sages. The antenna type must be provided with the setAntennaOffset command.

2.6 Galileo OSNMA
The receiver supports Galileo Open-Service Navigation Message Authentication (OSNMA), when enabled with the setGalOSNMAUsage command.
The authentication status is reported in the GALAuthStatus SBF block. The main steps involved in OSNMA authentication are summarized below.
1. The receiver may still need to gather initial information (e.g. public keys) from the Galileo satellites before being able to launch its authentication function. The initializa- tion progress is reported in % in the OSNMAStatus ?eld of GALAuthStatus. Once 100% is reached, all necessary information is available. The process of information gathering can take up to a few minutes, but is typically only needed once as the receiver stores the data in its non-volatile memory.

2. After initialization, the authentication process starts, indicated by the OSNMAStatus ?eld of GALAuthStatus changing to authenticating. Roughly a minute after this transition, satellite authentication results are expected to become available. The ActiveMask and AuthenticMask ?elds indicate for which satellites authentication


is available and successful.

3. The authentication status gets re?ected in the satellite status window of RxControl, as shown below.

Figure 2-5: Example OSNMA satellite status. The satellites marked with a green square are successfully authenticated.


2.6.1 Use of OSNMA in Simulated Scenarios
By default, OSNMA authentication is con?gured to work with live Galileo signals. In case the receiver is used in a simulated environment where the OSNMA public keys and Merkle Tree root key do not correspond with the live OSNMA keys, the following steps are needed to con?gure the OSNMA engine correctly:
1. Determine whether an NTP server (linked to the simulator) is available. If there is one, make the receiver aware of it using the setNTPClient command. If not, disable the NTP server connection using setNTPClient, off.

2. When Public Key Renewal (PKR) is not available, or to speed-up the authentication pro- cess, a user can manually introduce public keys using the setGalOSNMAPublicKeys command.

3. In case the PKR feature is needed, the appropriate Merkle Tree root key needs to be introduced using the second argument of the setGalOSNMAUsage command. Make


sure to enable the OSNMA operation at the same time (using either the loose or strict
argument).









Chapter 3

Command Line Reference


3.1 Command Line Interface Outline
The receiver outputs a prompt when it is ready to accept a user command. The prompt is of the form:

CD>


where CD is the connection descriptor of the current connection, e.g. COM1 (see sec- tion1.1.5).
The prompt indicates the termination of the processing of a given command. When send- ing multiple commands to the receiver, it is necessary to wait for the prompt between each command.
Sometimes a connection is not con?gured to accept user commands, for example because it is put into differential correction input mode. A way to force a connection to accept com- mands is to send a succession of ten "S" characters to that connection and then to press the enter key (SSSSSSSSSS<CR>). See also the description of the setDataInOut command.

3.1.1 Command Types
Most commands fall into one of the following categories:
set-commands to change one or more con?guration parameters;
get-commands to get the current value of one or more con?guration parameters;
exe-commands to initiate some action;
lst-commands to retrieve the contents of internal ?les or list the commands.


Each set-command has its get-counterpart, but the opposite is not true.  For in- stance, the setNMEAOutput command has a corresponding getNMEAOutput, but getReceiverCapabilities has no set-counterpart. Each exe-command also has its get-counterpart which can be used to retrieve the parameters of the last invocation of the command.


3.1.2 Command Line Syntax
Each ASCII command line consists of a command name optionally followed by a list of ar- guments and terminated by <CR>, <LF> or <CR><LF> character(s) usually corresponding to pressing the "Enter" key on the keyboard.

To minimize typing effort when sending commands by hand, the command name can be replaced by its 3-5 character mnemonic. For instance, grc can be used instead of getReceiverCapabilities.

The receiver is case insensitive when interpreting a command line.


The maximum length of any ASCII command line is 2000 characters.

For commands requiring arguments, the comma "," must be used to separate the arguments from each other and from the command's name. Any number of spaces can be inserted before and after the comma.

Each argument of a set-command corresponds to a single con?guration parameter in the receiver. Usually, each of these con?guration parameters can be set independently of the others, so most of the set-command's arguments are optional. Optional arguments can be omitted but if omitted arguments are followed by non-omitted ones, a corresponding number of commas must be entered. Omitted arguments always keep their current value.


3.1.3 Command Replies
The reply to ASCII commands always starts with "$R" and ends with <CR><LF> followed by the prompt corresponding to the connection descriptor you are connected to.

The following types of replies are de?ned for ASCII commands:

• For comment lines (user input beginning with "#") or empty commands (just pressing "Enter"), the receiver replies with the prompt.

COM1> # This is a comment! <CR>
COM1>

• For invalid commands, the reply is an error message, always beginning with the key- word "$R?" followed by an error message.

• For all valid set-, get- and exe-commands, the ?rst line of the reply is an exact copy of the command as entered by the user, preceded with "$R:". One or more additional lines are printed depending on the command. These lines report the con?guration of the receiver after execution of the command.
COM1>setNMEAOutput, stream1, com1, GGA, sec1 <CR>
$R: setNMEAOutput, stream1, com1, GGA, sec1 NMEAOutput, stream1, com1, GGA, sec1
COM1>

For commands which reset or halt the receiver (e.g. exeResetReceiver), the reply is terminated by "STOP>" instead of the standard prompt, to indicate that no further command can be entered.


• For all valid lst-commands, the ?rst line of the reply is an exact copy of the com- mand as entered by the user, preceded with "$R;". The second line is a pseudo-prompt "---->" and the remaining of the reply is a succession of formatted blocks, each of them starting with "$-- BLOCK".


ASCII replies to set-, get- and exe-commands, including the terminating prompt, are atomic: they cannot be broken by other messages from the receivers. For the lst- commands, the replies may consist of several atomic formatted blocks which can be inter- leaved with other output data. If more than one formatted block is output for a lst-command, each of the intermediate blocks is terminated with a pseudo-prompt "---->". The normal prompt will only be used to terminate the last formatted block of the reply so that one single prompt is always associated with one command.

3.1.4 Command Syntax Tables
All ASCII commands are listed in section 3.2. Each command is introduced by a compact formal description of it called a "syntax table". Syntax tables contain a complete list of arguments with their possible values and default settings when applicable.


The conventions used in syntax tables are explained below by taking a ?ctitious
setCommandName command as example. The syntax table for that command is:

scn
gcnsetCommandName
getCommandNameCd
CdDistanceTimeMessage (120)Password (40/2)ModePRN+ Com1
+ Com2-20.00 . . . 0.00 . . . 20.00
m1 . . . 50 secUnknownon
offnone
+ G01 ... G32all+ S120 ... S138+ SBAS+ GPSall
GUI: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Example


The associated set- and get-commands are always described in pairs, and the same holds for the associated exe- and get-commands. The command name and its equivalent 3-5 character mnemonic are printed in the ?rst two columns. The list of arguments for the set- and get-commands is listed in the ?rst and second row respectively. In our example, setCommandName can accept up to 6 arguments and getCommandName only accepts one argument. Mandatory arguments are printed in bold face. Besides the mandatory argu- ments, at least one of the optional arguments must be provided in the command line.

The list of possible values for each argument is printed under each of them. Default values for optional arguments are underlined.

The link printed in blue under the syntax table shows under which GUI menu the command can be found.
The ?ctitious command above contains all the possible argument types:

• Cd serves as an index for all following arguments. This can be noticed by the possibility to use this argument in the get-command. This argument is mandatory in the set-command. The accepted values are COM1, COM2 and all, corresponding to the ?rst or second serial ports, or to both of them respectively. The "+" sign before the ?rst two values indicates that they can be combined to address both serial ports in the same command.



Examples: COM1, COM1+COM2, all (which is actually an alias for COM1+COM2).


• Distance is a number between -20 and 20 with a default value of 0, and up to 2 decimal digits. An error is returned if more digits are provided. The "m" indicates that the value is expressed in meters. Note that this "m" should not be typed when entering the command.

Examples: 20, 10.3, -2.34


• Time is a number between 1 and 50, with no decimal digit (i.e. this is an integer value). This value is expressed in seconds.

Examples: 1, 10


• Message is a string with a maximum length of 120 characters. The default value of that argument is "Unknown". When spaces must to be used, the string has to be put between quotes and these enclosing quotes are not considered part of the string. The list of allowed characters in strings is:

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789
!#%@()*+-./:;<=>?[\]^_'{|}~

Example: "Hello World!"


• Password is a password argument with a maximum length of 20 characters (40/2). Only half of the total password length is available to the user, the other half being reserved by the system. Passwords are obfuscated by the receiver so that they cannot be read back in command replies.
In addition to the characters above (see the Message argument), special characters are allowed in passwords using the corresponding escape sequence:
- Type %%DQ to obtain "
- Type %%SQ to obtain '
- Type %%DL to obtain $
- Type %%AM to obtain &
   - Type %%CM to obtain , Example: "ab%%AM123"

• Mode is a range of individual values that cannot be combined (they are not preceded by a "+" sign). Either off or on can be selected for that argument and the default value is on.

Example: on


• PRN is a range of values that can be combined together with the "+" sign. The default value GPS is an alias for G01+G02+ ... +G32, SBAS is an alias for S120+ ...
+S138 and all an alias for GPS+SBAS. A "+" sign can be set before the argument to indicate to add the speci?ed value(s) to the current list. If the value "none" is supported (which is the case in this example), a "-" sign can be set before the argument to remove the speci?ed value(s) from the current list. It is possible to add or remove multiple values at once by "adding" or "subtracting" them with the "+" or "-" operator. However, "+" and "-" can never be combined in a single argument.

Examples: G01+G02, +G03, GPS+S120, +G04+G05, -S122-S123, -GPS


3.2 Command Definitions
3.2.1 Receiver Administration

lailstAntennaInfoAntennaOverview Main Aux1
[antenna name]Use this command with the argument Antenna set to Overview to get a list of all antenna names for which the receiver knows the phase center variation parameters (see section 2.5).
Use this command with the argument Antenna set to one of the antenna names returned by lstAntennaInfo, Overview to retrieve the complete phase center variation parameters for that particular antenna. Do not forget to enclose the name between double quotes if it contains whitespaces.
Using the values Main or Aux1 will return the phase center variation parameters correspond- ing to the main or auxiliary antenna type as speci?ed in the command setAntennaOffset
.

Examples
COM1> lai, Overview <CR>
$R; lai, Overview
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1" ?>
<AntennaInfo version="22.1.0">
<Antenna ID="3COAG35	NONE"/>
<Antenna ID="3COAG35H	NONE"/>
<Antenna ID="3COAT-703	NONE"/>
<Antenna ID="3COAT-705	NONE"/>
<Antenna ID="3COAT901	NONE"/>
...
<Antenna ID="WIEGPOT206-003 NONE"/>
</AntennaInfo> COM1>
COM1> lai, "AERAT2775_159 SPKE"<CR>
$R; lai,"AERAT2775_159	SPKE"
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1" ?>
<AntennaInfo version="22.1.0">
<Antenna ID="AERAT2775_159	SPKE"/>
<L1>
<offset north="0.5" east="0.1" up="77.8"/>
<phase elevation="90" value="0.0"/>
<phase elevation="85" value="-0.2"/>
...
<phase elevation=" 5" value="0.0"/>
<phase elevation=" 0" value="0.0"/>
</L2>
</AntennaInfo> COM1>



helplstCommandHelpAction (255)Overview
Use this command to retrieve a short description of the ASCII command-line interface.

When invoking this command with the Overview argument, the receiver returns the list of all supported set-, get- and exe-commands. The lstCommandHelp command can also be called with any supported set-, get- or exe-command (the full name or the mnemonic) as argument.
The reply to this command is free-formatted and subject to change in future versions of the receiver's software. This command is designed to be used by human users. When building software applications, it is recommended to use the formal lstMIBDescription.

Examples
COM1> help, Overview <CR>
$R; help, Overview
$-- BLOCK 1 / 0
MENU: communication GROUP: ioSelection
sdio, setDataInOut gdio, getDataInOut
... COM1>

COM1> help, getReceiverCapabilities <CR>
$R; help, getReceiverCapabilities
... Here comes a description of getReceiverCapabilities ... COM1>

COM1> help, grc <CR>
$R; help, grc
... Here comes a description of getReceiverCapabilities ... COM1>



lcflstConfigFileFileCurrent Boot RxDefault User1 User2
Use this command to list the contents of a con?guration ?le. A con?guration ?le contains the list of user commands needed to bring the receiver from factory default to a certain non- default con?guration.
The following con?guration ?les are available:

FileDescriptionCurrentThe current con?guration.BootThe con?guration that is loaded at boot time, after a power cy- cle or after a hard reset (see also the exeResetReceiver com- mand).RxDefaultThe default con?guration.User1A user-de?ned con?guration.User2A user-de?ned con?guration.
See also the related exeCopyConfigFile command to learn how to manage con?guration ?les.

Example
COM1> smp, TestMarker <CR>
$R: smp, TestMarker MarkerParameters, "TestMarker"
COM1> lcf, Current <CR>
$R; lcf, Current
$-- BLOCK 1 / 1
  setMarkerParameters, "TestMarker" COM1>



eccf
gccfexeCopyConfigFile
getCopyConfigFileSourceTargetCurrentCurrentBootBootUser1User1User2User2RxDefault
RxControl: File > Copy Con?guration


Use this command to manage the con?guration ?les. See the lstConfigFile command for a description of the different con?guration ?les.
With this command, the user can copy con?gurations ?les into other con?guration ?les. For instance, copying the Current ?le into the Boot ?le makes that the receiver will always boot in the current con?guration.

Examples
To save the current con?guration in the Boot ?le, use:
COM1> eccf, Current, Boot <CR>
$R: eccf, Current, Boot CopyConfigFile, Current, Boot
COM1>

To load the con?guration stored in User1, use:
COM1> eccf, User1, Current <CR>
$R: eccf, User1, Current CopyConfigFile, User1, Current
COM1>



seth
gethsetEthernetMode
getEthernetModeEnableoff on
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > General


Use this command to turn the Ethernet interface on or off.
 Before turning Ethernet off, make sure that the receiver will still be accessible through an- other interface (serial, USB,...). This is especially important for remote receivers. It will not be possible to access the receiver over Ethernet after invoking the setEthernetMode, off command.

Example
COM1> seth, on<CR>
$R: seth, on EthernetMode, on
COM1>



efup
gfupexeFTPUpgrade
getFTPUpgradeServer (32)Path (64)Login (12)Password (24/2)
(1)anonymous
RxControl: File > Upgrade Receiver using FTP


Use this command to upgrade the receiver by fetching the upgrade ?le from an FTP server. The arguments specify the FTP server, the path to the upgrade ?le (.SUF format), and the login and password to use.
This procedure always resets the receiver, even if the upgrade ?le does not exist.

Before resetting, the receiver broadcasts a "$TE ResetReceiver" message to all active communication ports, to inform all users of the imminent reset.
After a reset, the user may have to adapt the communication settings of his/her terminal program as they may be reset to their default values.

Example
COM1> efup, myftp.com, /tst.suf, user, password<CR>
$R: efup, myftp.com, /tst.suf, user, password FTPUpgrade, "myftp.com", "/tst.suf", "user",
"I301I5B8DG8E7QTT6RZT7IQ"
STOP>
$TE ResetReceiver Upgrade STOP>



























(1)	Only half of the total password length is available to the user (See Section 3.1.4 on page 66)



sgpf
ggpfsetGPIOFunctionality
getGPIOFunctionalityGPPin
GPPinModeInputOutput+ GP1OutputnoneLevelLow+ GP2LevelHighall
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > GPIO


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the functionality assigned to every GPIO pin.

Currently, only the output pins (GPx) can be controlled by this command, and the Mode and Input arguments can only take the values Output and none respectively. The argument Output sets the electrical level to be applied to the pin speci?ed in GPPin.
In housed products, the number of GPIO pins con?gurable by this command is larger than the number of GPIO pins available to the user. The extra pins are used for internal purposes, and their settings should not be modi?ed. Please refer to the Hardware Manual or the User Manual of your product to check which GPIO pins are available.

Example
To set the signal on GP2 to a logical 1, use:
COM1> sgpf, GP2, Output, , LevelHigh <CR>
$R: sgpf, GP2, Output, , LevelHigh GPIOFunctionality, GP2, Output, none, LevelHigh
COM1>



liflstInternalFileFilePermissions Identification Debug
Error SisError DiffCorrError SetupError IPParameters RxMessages
Use this command to retrieve the contents of one of the receiver internal ?les:

FileDescriptionPermissionsList of permitted options in your receiver.IdentificationInformation about the different components being part of the receiver (e.g. serial number, ?rmware version, etc.).DebugProgram ?ow information that can help support engineers to debug certain issues.ErrorLast internal error reports.SisErrorLast detected signal-in-space anomalies.DiffCorrErrorLast detected anomalies in the incoming differential correction streams.SetupErrorLast detected anomalies in the receiver setup.IPParametersHostname, MAC and IP addresses, DNS addresses, netmask and gateway.RxMessagesEvent log from the receiver. This is the list of the recent event log messages. These messages are also available in the RxMessage SBF block.
Example
COM1> lif, Permissions <CR>
$R; lif, Permissions
---->
$-- BLOCK 1 / 1
... here follows the permission file ... COM1>



slm
glmsetLEDMode
getLEDModeGPLEDGPLED2DIFFCORLEDDIFFCORLEDPVTLEDPVTLEDTRACKLEDTRACKLEDLOGLEDLOGLEDRTKLEDRTKLED
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > GPIO


Use this command to de?ne/inquire the blinking mode of the General Purpose LED(s).

The different LED blinking modes are described in the Hardware Manual or in the User Man- ual of your receiver.

Example
COM1> slm, DIFFCORLED <CR>
$R: slm, DIFFCORLED LEDMode, DIFFCORLED
COM1>



lmdlstMIBDescriptionFile (255)Overview SBFTable
Use this command to retrieve the ASN.1-compliant syntax of the user command interface. The name of the command refers to the MIB (Management Information Base), which holds the whole receiver con?guration. There is a one-to-one relationship between the formal MIB description and the ASCII command-line interface for all exe-, get- and set-commands.
When the value Overview is used, the general syntax of the interface is returned. With the value SBFTable, the receiver will output the list of supported SBF blocks and whether they can be output at a user-selectable rate or not. The lstMIBDescription command can also be called with every supported set-, get- or exe-command (the full name or the mnemonic) as argument.
No formal description of the lst-commands can be retrieved with lstMIBDescription.

Examples
COM1> lmd, Overview <CR>
$R; lmd, Overview
... Here comes the generic command syntax ... COM1>

COM1> lmd, grc <CR>
$R; lmd, grc
... Here comes the description of getReceiverCapabilities ... COM1>



grcgetReceiverCapabilities
RxControl: Help > Receiver Interface > Permitted Capabilities


Use this command to retrieve the so-called "capabilities" of your receiver. The ?rst returned value is the list of supported antenna(s), followed by the list of supported signals, the list of available communication ports and the list of enabled features.
The three values at the end of the reply line correspond to the default measurement interval, the default PVT interval and the default integrated INS/GNSS interval respectively. This is the interval at which the corresponding SBF blocks are output when the OnChange rate is selected with the setSBFOutput command. These values are expressed in milliseconds.
Each of the above-mentioned lists contain one or more of the elements in the tables below.

AntennasDescriptionMainThe receiver's main antenna.Aux1First auxiliary antenna.
SignalsDescriptionGPSL1CAGPS L1 C/A signal.GPSL2PYGPS L2 P(Y) signal.GPSL2CGPS L2 C signal.GLOL1CAGLONASS L1 C/A signal.GLOL2CAGLONASS L2 C/A signal.GALL1BCGalileo L1 BC signal.GALE5bGalileo E5b signal.GEOL1SBAS L1 C/A signal.BDSB1IBeiDou B1I signal.BDSB2IBeiDou B2I signal.BDSB3IBeiDou B3I signal.QZSL1CAQZSS L1 C/A signal.QZSL2CQZSS L2 C signal.QZSL1CBQZSS L1 C/B signal.

ComPortsDescriptionCOM1Serial port 1.COM2Serial port 2.COM3Serial port 3.COM4Serial port 4.USB1USB-device virtual serial port 1.USB2USB-device virtual serial port 2.


ComPorts (Continued)DescriptionIP10TCP/IP port 1.IP11TCP/IP port 2.IP12TCP/IP port 3.IP13TCP/IP port 4.IP14TCP/IP port 5.IP15TCP/IP port 6.IP16TCP/IP port 7.IP17TCP/IP port 8.NTR1NTRIP port 1.NTR2NTRIP port 2.NTR3NTRIP port 3.IPS1IP Server port 1.IPS2IP Server port 2.IPS3IP Server port 3.IPS4IP Server port 4.IPS5IP Server port 5.IPR1IP Receive port 1.IPR2IP Receive port 2.IPR3IP Receive port 3.IPR4IP Receive port 4.IPR5IP Receive port 5.

CapabilitiesDescriptionSBASPositioning with SBAS corrections.DGNSSRoverPositioning with DGNSS corrections.DGNSSBaseGeneration of DGNSS corrections.RTKRoverPositioning with RTK corrections.RTKBaseGeneration of RTK corrections.RTCMv23Generation/decoding of RTCM v2.3 corrections.RTCMv3xGeneration/decoding of RTCM v3.x corrections.CMRv20Generation/decoding of CMR v2.0 corrections.xPPSOutputGeneration of xPPS output signal.TimedEventAccurate time mark of event signals.InternalLoggingInternal logging.HeadingMulti-antennas heading computation.APMEA-Posteriori Multipath Estimator.RAIMReceiver Autonomous Integrity Monitoring.MovingBaseUsage of Moving Base.


Capabilities (Continued)DescriptionMeasAvMeasurement availability.IMInterference mitigation.FreqSyncExternal frequency input.
Example
COM1> grc <CR>
$R: grc
ReceiverCapabilities, Main, GPSL1CA+GEOL1, COM1+COM2+COM3+COM4+ USB1+USB2,
  APME+SBAS, 100, 100, 100 COM1>



grigetReceiverInterfaceItem+ RxName
+
SNMPLanguage
+ SNMPVersion all
RxControl: Help > Receiver Interface > Interface Version


Use this command to retrieve the version of the receiver command-line interface. The reply to this command is a subset of the reply returned by the lstInternalFile, Identification command.

Example
COM1> gri <CR>
$R: gri
ReceiverInterface, RxName, AsteRx1 ReceiverInterface, SNMPLanguage, English ReceiverInterface, SNMPVersion, 20060308
COM1>



era
graexeRegisteredApplications
getRegisteredApplicationsCd
CdApplication (12)+ COM1
+ COM2
+ COM3
+ COM4
+ USB1
+ USB2
+ IP10 ... IP17
allUnknown
RxControl: Communication > Registration


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the name of the application that is currently using a given connection descriptor (Cd - see 1.1.5 ).
Registering an application name for a connection does not affect the receiver operation, and is done on a voluntary basis. Application registration can be useful to developers of external applications when more than one application is to communicate with the receiver concur- rently. Whether or not this command is used, and the way it is used is up to the developers of external applications.

Example
COM1> era, com1, MyApp <CR>
$R: era, com1, MyApp RegisteredApplications, COM1, "MyApp" RegisteredApplications, COM2, "Unknown" RegisteredApplications, COM3, "Unknown" RegisteredApplications, USB1, "Unknown" RegisteredApplications, USB2, "Unknown"
COM1>



erst
grstexeResetReceiver
getResetReceiverLevelEraseMemorySoftnoneHard+ ConfigUpgrade+ PVTData+ SatData+
HTTPSCertificate+ SISAuthDataall
RxControl: File > Reset Receiver


Use this command to reset the receiver and to erase some previously stored data. The ?rst argument speci?es which level of reset you want to execute:

LevelDescriptionSoftThis is a reset of the receiver's ?rmware. After a few seconds, the receiver will restart operating in the same con?guration as before the command was issued, unless the "Config" value is speci?ed in the second argument.HardThis is similar to a power off/on sequence. After hardware reset, the receiver will use the con?guration saved in the boot con?g- uration ?le.UpgradeSet the receiver into upgrade mode. After a few seconds, the receiver is ready to accept an upgrade ?le (SUF format) from any of its connections.
The second argument speci?es which part of the non-volatile memory should be erased dur- ing the reset. The following table contains the possible values for the EraseMemory argument:

EraseMemoryDescriptionConfigThe receiver's con?guration is reset to the factory default, with the following exceptions.

The  IP  settings  set  by  the  setIPSettings and
setIPPortSettings commands keep their value.

The UHF table set by the setUHFChannelTable command is maintained.

After reset, the Current and Boot con?guration ?les are erased (see the exeCopyConfigFile command), but the User1 and User2 con?guration ?les are kept unchanged.PVTDataThe latest computed PVT data stored in non-volatile memory is erased.SatDataAll satellite navigation data (ephemeris, almanac, ionosphere parameters, UTC, ...) stored in non-volatile memory is erased.HTTPSCertificateRemove current HTTPS certi?cate. It will be replaced by a self- signed certi?cate at boot.


EraseMemory (Continued)	DescriptionSISAuthDataRemove stored OSNMA data (PKR - Public Keys, ?oating KROOT)
Before resetting, the receiver broadcasts a "$TE ResetReceiver" message to all active communication ports, to inform all users of the imminent reset.
After a reset, the user may have to adapt the communication settings of his/her terminal program as they may be reset to their default values.

Example
COM1> erst, soft, none <CR>
$R: erst, soft, none ResetReceiver, Soft, none
STOP>
$TE ResetReceiver Soft STOP>



suia
guiasetUSBInternetAccess
getUSBInternetAccessEnableoff on
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > General


Use this command to enable or disable outgoing network access over USB.

If enabled, the receiver will attempt to obtain an IP address via DHCP over the USB connec- tion. It will then be able to access the Internet through that connection, allowing, for example, to communicate with a NTRIP server. Note that this requires that Internet sharing is enabled on the computer attached to the receiver.
The IP address assigned to the receiver can be retrieved from the lstInternalFile, IPParameters command.
See also section 1.1.3.2.

Example
COM1> suia, on<CR>
$R: suia, on USBInternetAccess, on
COM1>


3.2.2 Standby and Sleep Configuration

epwm
gpwmexePowerMode
getPowerModeModeStandByRxControl: File > Power Mode > Shut Down


Use this command to set the receiver in sleep or standby mode, in which it consumes only a fraction of its normal operational power.
When in standby mode, the receiver can be awoken by sending the appropriate signal to one of its input pins (see the receiver Hardware Manual or User Manual for details).
Upon waking up, the receiver applies the con?guration that is stored in the boot con?guration ?le (see the lstConfigFile command).
Before entering standby mode, the receiver broadcasts a "$TE PowerMode" message to all active communication ports, to inform all users of the imminent halt.

Example
COM1> epwm, Standby <CR>
$R: epwm, Standby PowerMode, StandBy
STOP>
$TE PowerMode Standby STOP>


3.2.3 User Management

lculstCurrentUserUse this command to check which user is currently logged in on this port, if any. See also the
login command.

Example
COM1> lcu <CR>
$R! lstCurrentUser Not logged in.
COM1> login, admin, admin <CR>
$R! LogIn
User admin logged in.
COM1> lcu <CR>
$R! lstCurrentUser Logged in as admin.
COM1>



sdal
gdalsetDefaultAccessLevel
getDefaultAccessLevelWebFileTransferIpComUsbnone Viewer Usernone Viewer Usernone Viewer Usernone Viewer Usernone Viewer User
RxControl: File > User Management


This command de?nes what an anonymous user is authorized to do when connected to the receiver. An anonymous user is one who has not logged in with the login command.
The anonymous authorization level can be set independently for the different interfaces.

For all arguments except FileTransfer, setting the authorization level to User grants full con- trol of the receiver to the anonymous user connected through the corresponding connec- tion. The Viewer level allows the anonymous user to view the receiver con?guration with- out changing it (i.e. to only issue get-commands). none prevents anonymous users from viewing or changing the con?guration.
For the FileTransfer argument, Viewer means that the anonymous user is allowed to down- load log ?les from the receiver using FTP, but not to delete them. User means that the anony- mous user can both download and delete ?les, and none disables anonymous accesses.
To perform actions not allowed to anonymous users, you ?rst need to authenticate yourself by entering a UserName and Password through the login command.
See also the commands setUserAccessLevel to learn how to de?ne user accounts.
This command does not change the status of existing connections. For example, for Com or
Usb connections, it will only take effect after a reset.

Example
COM1> sdal, User, User, none, Viewer, Viewer<CR>
$R: sdal, User, User, none, Viewer, Viewer DefaultAccessLevel, none, Viewer, User, User, Viewer
COM1>



loginLogInUserName (16)Password (32/2)
(2)
Use this command to authenticate yourself. When initially connecting to the receiver, a user is considered "anonymous". The level of control granted to anonymous users is de?ned by the command setDefaultAccessLevel.
To perform actions not allowed to anonymous users, you need to authenticate yourself by entering a UserName and Password through the login command.
The list of user names and passwords and their respective access level can be managed with the setUserAccessLevel command. Login fails if the provided UserName or Password is not in that list.
The logout command returns to unauthenticated (anonymous) access. The lstCurrentUser command can be invoked to ?nd out which user is logged in on the current port.
It is not necessary to log out before logging in as a different user.

Examples
To log in as user "admin" with password "admin", use
COM1> login, admin, admin <CR>
$R! LogIn
User admin logged in.
COM1>

Logging in with a wrong username or password gives an error:
COM1> login, foo, foo <CR>
$R? LogIn: Wrong username or password! COM1>

If the user does not have su?cient access right, some commands may give an error:
COM1> sso, Stream1, COM1, MeasEpoch, sec1 <CR>
$R? SBFOutput: Not authorized! COM1>














(2)	Only half of the total password length is available to the user (See Section 3.1.4 on page 66)



logoutLogOut
Use this command to return to anonymous access. It is the reverse of login.

Example
The following sequence of commands logs in as user "admin" with password "admin", recon- ?gures SBF output, and logs out again:
COM1> login, admin, admin <CR>
$R! LogIn
User admin logged in.
COM1> sso, Stream1, COM1, PVTCartesian, sec1 <CR>
$R: sso, Stream1, COM1, PVTCartesian, sec1 SBFOutput, Stream1, COM1, PVTCartesian, sec1
COM1> logout <CR>
$R! LogOut
User admin logged out.
COM1>



sual
gualsetUserAccessLevel
getUserAccessLevelUserID
UserIDUserName (16)Password (32)UserLevelSSHKey (232)+ User1 ... User8 allViewer User
RxControl: File > User Management


Use these commands to manage the user accounts and their access rights on the receiver. Up to eight user accounts can be de?ned (User1 to User8).
Each user is identi?ed with a UserName and Password, and has a certain level of acces (User- Level). If UserLevel is User, the user has full control of the receiver. If it is Viewer, the user can only issue get-commands.
The SSHKey argument can be used to associate an SSH public key to a user. ECDSA, Ed25519 and RSA PEM-encoded (base64) public keys conforming to RFC 4716 are supported. The number of bits in the key must be such that the corresponding base64 public key does not exceed 232 characters. RSA keys need to be at least 1024 bits long. Whenever possible, ECDSA or Ed25519 keys are recommended for enhanced security.
When an SSH key is de?ned with the SSHKey argument, a user can download log ?les using SFTP or rsync without the need for entering a password, provided the matching private key is known by the key agent running on his machine.
To delete an user account, use the empty string "" as UserName and Password.
Note that the receiver encrypts the password so that it cannot be read back with the com- mand getUserAccessLevel.

Example
COM1> sual, User3, Mildred, mypwd, Viewer, AAAAE2VjZH ... a9YSdPMw==<CR>
$R: sual, User3, Mildred, mypwd, Viewer, AAAAE2VjZH ... a9YSdPMw== UserAccessLevel, User3, Mildred, mypwd, Viewer, AAAAE2VjZH ...
a9YSdPMw==
COM1>


3.2.4 Tracking and Measurement Generation

sca
gcasetChannelAllocation
getChannelAllocationChannel
ChannelSatelliteSearchDopplerWindow+ Ch01 ... Ch60
allauto
G01 ... G32auto
manual-50000	. . . 0

. . . 50000 Hz1	. . . 16000
. . . 100000 HzF01 ... F14E01 ... E36S120 ... S158C01 ... C63J01 ... J07RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > Channel Allocation


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the satellite-to-channel allocation of the receiver.

The action of the setChannelAllocation command is to force the allocation of a partic- ular satellite on the set of channels identi?ed with the Channel argument, thereby overruling the automatic channel allocation performed by the receiver. It is possible to allocate the same satellite to more than one channel. If you assign a satellite to a given channel, any other channel that was automatically allocated to the same satellite will be stopped and will be reallocated.
The values Gxx, Exx, Fxx, Cxx, Jxx and Sxxx for the Satellite argument represent GPS, Galileo, GLONASS, BeiDou, QZSS and SBAS satellites respectively. For GLONASS, the fre- quency number (with an offset of 8) should be provided, and not the slot number (hence the "F"). Setting the Satellite argument to auto brings the channel back in auto-allocation mode.
The user can specify the Doppler window in which the receiver has to search for the satellite. This is done by setting the Search argument to manual. In that case, the Doppler and Window arguments can be provided: the receiver will search for the signal within an interval of Window Hz centred on Doppler Hz. The value to be provided in the Doppler argument is the expected Doppler at the GPS L1 carrier frequency (1575.42MHz). This value includes the geometric Doppler and the receiver and satellite frequency biases. Specifying a Doppler window can speed up the search process in some circumstances. A satellite already in tracking that falls outside of the prescribed window will remain in tracking.
If Search is set to auto, the receiver applies its usual search procedure, as it would do for auto-allocated satellites, and the Doppler and Window arguments are ignored.
Be aware that this command may disturb the normal operation of the receiver and is in- tended only for expert-level users.
Note that, when manually allocating a large number of channels to a single constellation, it is possible that some channels are left idle if the receiver does not have enough tracking hardware of the type required for the selected constellation.

Examples
COM1> sca, Ch05, G01 <CR>
$R: sca, Ch05, G01
  ChannelAllocation, Ch05, G01, auto, 0, 16000 COM1>


COM1> gca, Ch05 <CR>
$R: gca, Ch05
  ChannelAllocation, Ch05, G01, auto, 0, 16000 COM1>



scm
gcmsetCN0Mask
getCN0MaskSignal
SignalMask+ GPSL1CA
+ Reserved2
+ GPSL2C
+ GLOL1CA
+ GLOL2CA
+ GALL1BC
+ GALE5b
+ GEOL1
+ BDSB1I
+ BDSB2I
+ BDSB3I
+ QZSL1CA
+ QZSL2C
+ QZSL1CB
all0 . . . 10 . . . 60 dB-
Hz
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Masks


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the carrier-to-noise ratio mask for the generation of measurements. The receiver does not generate measurements for those signals of which the C/N0 is under the speci?ed mask, and does not include these signals in the PVT computation. However, it continues to track these signals and to decode and use the navigation data as long as possible, regardless of the C/N0 mask.
The mask can be set independently for each of the signal types supported by the receiver, ex- cept for the GPS P-code, of which the mask is ?xed at 1 dB-Hz (this is because of the codeless tracking scheme needed for GPS P-code).

Examples
COM1> scm, GEOL1, 30 <CR>
$R: scm, GEOL1, 30 CN0Mask, GEOL1, 30
COM1>

COM1> gcm, GEOL1 <CR>
$R: gcm, GEOL1 CN0Mask, GEOL1, 30
COM1>



smm
gmmsetMultipathMitigation
getMultipathMitigationCodeCarrieroff onoff on
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Tracking and Measurements > Multipath


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire whether multipath mitigation is enabled or not.

The arguments Code and Carrier enable or disable the A-Posteriori Multipath Estimator (APME) for the code and carrier phase measurements respectively. APME is a technique by which the receiver continuously estimates the multipath error and corrects the measure- ments accordingly.
This multipath estimation process slightly increases the thermal noise on the pseudoranges. However, this increase is more than compensated by the dramatic decrease of the multipath noise.

Examples
COM1> smm, on, off <CR>
$R: smm, on, off MultipathMitigation, on, off
COM1>

COM1> gmm <CR>
$R: gmm
  MultipathMitigation, on, off COM1>



sst
gstsetSatelliteTracking
getSatelliteTrackingSatellitenone
+ G01 ... G32
+ R01 ... R30
+ E01 ... E36
+ S120 ... S158
+ C01 ... C63
+ J01 ... J07
+ GPS
+ GLONASS
+ GALILEO
+ SBAS
+ BEIDOU
+ QZSS
all
RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > Tracking > Satellite Tracking


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire which satellites are allowed to be tracked by the re- ceiver. It is possible to enable or disable a single satellite (e.g. G01 for GPS PRN1), or a whole constellation. Gxx, Exx, Rxx, Cxx, Jxx and Sxxx refer to a GPS, Galileo, GLONASS, BeiDou, QZSS or SBAS satellite respectively. GLONASS satellites must be referenced by their slot num- ber in this command.
For a satellite to be effectively tracked by the receiver, make sure that at least one of its signals is enabled in the setSignalTracking command.
A satellite which is disabled by this command is not considered anymore in the automatic channel allocation mechanism, but it can still be forced to a given channel, and tracked, using the setChannelAllocation command.
Tracking a satellite does not automatically mean that the satellite will be included in the PVT computation. The inclusion of a satellite in the PVT computation is controlled by the setSatelliteUsage command.

Examples
To only enable the tracking of GPS satellites, use:
COM1> sst, GPS <CR>
$R: sst, GPS
SatelliteTracking, G01+G02+G03+G04+G05+G06+G07+G08+G09+G10+G11
+G12+G13+G14+G15+G16+G17+G18+G19+G20+G21+G22+G23+G24+G25+G26+G27
   +G28+G29+G30+G31+G32 COM1>

To add all SBAS satellites in the list of satellites to be tracked, use:
COM1> sst, +SBAS <CR>
$R: sst, +SBAS
SatelliteTracking, G01+G02+G03+G04+G05+G06+G07+G08+G09+G10+G11
+G12+G13+G14+G15+G16+G17+G18+G19+G20+G21+G22+G23+G24+G25+G26+G27
  ... COM1>

To remove SBAS PRN120 from the list of allowed satellites, use:


COM1> sst, -S120 <CR>
$R: sst, -S120
SatelliteTracking, G01+G02+G03+G04+G05+G06+G07+G08+G09+G10+G11
+G12+G13+G14+G15+G16+G17+G18+G19+G20+G21+G22+G23+G24+G25+G26+G27
  ... COM1>



snt
gntsetSignalTracking
getSignalTrackingSignal+ GPSL1CA
+ GPSL2PY
+ GPSL2C
+ GLOL1CA
+ GLOL2CA
+ GALL1BC
+ GALE5b
+ GEOL1
+ BDSB1I
+ BDSB2I
+ BDSB3I
+ QZSL1CA
+ QZSL2C
+ QZSL1CB
+ GPS
+ GLONASS
+ GALILEO
+ SBAS
+ BEIDOU
+ QZSS
all
RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > Tracking > Signal Tracking


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire which signals are allowed to be tracked by the re- ceiver. The signals can be addressed individually, or all signals from a constellation can be addressed at once. For example, GALILEO is an alias for all Galileo signals.
Note that some signals can only be enabled together with other signals:

   • enabling GPSL2PY has no effect unless GPSL1CA is enabled as well; Invoking this command causes all tracking loops to stop and restart.
 On mosaic-H, when the BDSB3I signal is enabled, the GALE5b and BDSB2I signals cannot be
tracked, as the receiver switches to a frequency plan supporting the B3 band at the expense of the E5b/B2I band. Refer to the Hardware Manual for details. Speci?cally, when BDSB3I is enabled, enabling GALE5b and/or BDSB2I has no effect. To track GALE5b and/or BDSB2I, BDSB3I must be disabled.

Examples
To con?gure the receiver in a single-frequency L1 GPS+SBAS mode, use:
COM1> snt, GPSL1CA+GEOL1 <CR>
$R: snt, GPSL1CA+GEOL1
  SignalTracking, GPSL1CA+GEOL1 COM1>

COM1> gnt <CR>
$R: gnt
  SignalTracking, GPSL1CA+GEOL1 COM1>



ssi
gsisetSmoothingInterval
getSmoothingIntervalSignal
SignalIntervalAlignment+ GPSL1CA
+ GPSL2PY
+ GPSL2C
+ GLOL1CA
+ GLOL2CA
+ GALL1BC
+ GALE5b
+ GEOL1
+ BDSB1I
+ BDSB2I
+ BDSB3I
+ QZSL1CA
+ QZSL2C
+ QZSL1CB
all0 . . . 1000 s0 . . . 1000 s
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Tracking and Measurements > Smoothing


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the code measurement smoothing interval.

The Interval argument de?nes the length of the smoothing ?lter that is used to smooth the code measurements by the carrier phase measurements. It is possible to de?ne a different interval for each signal type. If Interval is set to 0, the code measurements are not smoothed. The smoothing interval can vary from 1 to 1000 seconds.
To prevent transient effect from perturbing the smoothing ?lter, smoothing is disabled during the ?rst ten seconds of tracking, i.e.  when the lock time is lower than 10s. Likewise, the smoothing effectively starts with a delay of 10 seconds after entering the setSmoothingInterval command.
Code smoothing allows reducing the pseudoranges noise and multipath. It has no in?uence on the carrier phase and Doppler measurements. The smoothing ?lter has an incremental effect; the noise of the ?ltered pseudoranges will decrease over time and reach its minimum after Interval seconds. For some applications, it may be necessary to wait until this transient effect is over before including the measurement in the PVT computation. This is the purpose of the Alignment argument. If Alignment is not set to 0, measurements taken during the ?rst Alignment+10 seconds of tracking will be discarded. The effective amount of Alignment is never larger than Interval, even if the user sets it to a larger value.

Examples
COM1> ssi, GPSL1CA, 300 <CR>
$R: ssi, GPSL1CA, 300
  SmoothingInterval, GPSL1CA, 300, 0 COM1>

COM1> gsi, GPSL1CA <CR>
$R: gsi, GPSL1CA
  SmoothingInterval, GPSL1CA, 300, 0 COM1>



stlp
gtlpsetTrackingLoopParameters
getTrackingLoopParametersSignal
SignalDLLBandwidthPLLBandwidthMaxTpDLLMaxTpPLLAdaptive+ GPSL1CA
+ Reserved20.01	. . . 0.25
. . . 5.00 Hz1 . . . 15 . . . 100
Hz1 . . . 100 . . . 500
ms1 . . . 10 . . . 200
msoff
on+ GPSL2C+ GLOL1CA+ GLOL2CA+ GALL1BC+ GALE5b+ GEOL1+ BDSB1I+ BDSB2I+ BDSB3I+ QZSL1CA+ QZSL2C+ QZSL1CBall
RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > Tracking > Tracking Loop Parameters


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the tracking loop parameters for each individual sig- nal type.
The DLLBandwidth and PLLBandwidth arguments de?ne the single-sided DLL and PLL noise bandwidth, in Hz.
The MaxTpDLL argument de?nes the maximum DLL pre-detection time, in millisecond. The actual pre-detection time applied by the receiver (TpDLL) depends on the presence of a pilot component. For signals having a pilot component (e.g. GPS L2C), TpDLL = MaxTpDLL. For signals without pilot component (e.g. GPS L1CA), TpDLL is the largest divider of the symbol duration smaller than or equal to MaxTpDLL.
The MaxTpPLL argument de?nes the maximal PLL pre-detection time, in millisecond. The actual pre-detection time in the receiver (TpPLL) is computed in the same way as indicated for the MaxTpDLL argument.
Setting the Adaptive argument to on allows the receiver to dynamically change the loop pa- rameters in order to optimize performance in speci?c conditions.
After entering this command, all active tracking loops stop and restart with the new settings.

This command should only be used by expert users who understand the consequences of modifying the default values. In some circumstances, changing the tracking parameters may result in the impossibility for the receiver to track a speci?c signal, or may signi?cantly in- crease the processor load. It is recommended that the product of TpPLL (in milliseconds) and PLLBandwidth (in Hz) be kept between 100 and 200.
Note that decreasing the pre-detection times increases the load on the processor.

Example
COM1> stlp, GPSL1CA, 0.20, 12, , , off <CR>
$R: stlp, GPSL1CA, 0.20, 12, , , off
  TrackingLoopParameters, GPSL1CA, 0.20, 12, 100, 10, off COM1>


3.2.5 Frontend and Interference Mitigation

sam
gamsetAGCMode
getAGCModeBand
BandModeGain+ L1auto0 . . . 35 . . . 70 dB+ B3frozen+ L2manualallRxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > Frontend and Interference Mitigation > Frontend Settings


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the operation mode of the Automatic Gain Control (AGC) in the receiver frontend. The AGC is responsible for amplifying the input RF signal to an appropriate level.
By default (Mode is set to auto), the AGC automatically adjusts its gain in function of the input signal power. In frozen mode, the AGC gain is kept constant at its current value (after a ten-second stabilisation period) and does not follow any subsequent variation of the input signal power. In manual mode, the user can set the gain to a ?xed value speci?ed by the Gain argument. The Gain argument is ignored in auto and frozen modes.
The ?rst argument (Band) speci?es for which frequency band the settings apply. Note that the AGC con?guration is applied to both the main and the aux1 antennas.
Example
COM1> sam, all, manual, 30<CR>
$R: sam, all, manual, 30 AGCMode, all, manual, 30
COM1>



sbbs
gbbssetBBSamplingMode
getBBSamplingModeModeBeforeIM AfterIM
RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > Frontend and Interference Mitigation > Frontend Settings


Use this command to con?gure the baseband samples (ADC samples) logged in the
BBSamples SBF block.
The following sampling modes are de?ned:

ModeDescriptionBeforeIMThe samples in the BBSamples SBF block are taken before inter- ference mitigation (see the setNotchFiltering command). All frequency bands are sampled in turn.AfterIMThe samples in the BBSamples SBF block are taken after inter- ference mitigation (see the setNotchFiltering command). All frequency bands are sampled in turn.
Example
COM1> sbbs, BeforeIM <CR>
$R: sbbs, BeforeIM BBSamplingMode, BeforeIM
COM1>



sfm
gfmsetFrontendMode
getFrontendModeModeNominal SingleAnt
RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > Frontend and Interference Mitigation > Frontend Settings


Use this command to de?ne the frontend operating mode. The following modes are avail- able.

ModeDescriptionNominalNominal operation.SingleAntDisable auxiliary antenna.
On some receivers, this command only takes effect at the next reset or reboot. In that case, it must be stored in the boot con?guration ?le with the exeCopyConfigFile command.

Example
COM1> sfm, Nominal <CR>
$R: sfm, Nominal FrontendMode, Nominal
COM1>



snf
gnfsetNotchFiltering
getNotchFilteringNotch
NotchModeCenterFreqBandwidthAntenna+ Notch1
+ Notch2
+ Notch3off manual1100.000
. . . 1700.000
MHz30 . . . 1600 kHzMain Aux1all
RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > Frontend and Interference Mitigation > Frontend Settings


Use these commands to set the position of the notch ?lter(s) in the receiver's frontend. Notch ?lters are used to cancel narrowband interferences.
The Mode argument is used to enable or disable the notch ?lter speci?ed in the ?rst argu- ment. In manual mode, the user forces a certain region of the spectrum to be blanked by the notch ?lter. That region must be speci?ed by the arguments CenterFreq and Bandwidth. Bandwidth is the double-sided bandwidth centered at CenterFreq. Specifying a region outside of a GNSS band has no effect. The Antenna argument speci?es on which antenna the notch must be set.
In some cases, changing the operating mode of the notch ?lters (i.e. modifying the Mode
argument) can cause the tracking loops to reset.

Example
COM1> snf, Notch1, manual, 1227.0, 30, Main<CR>
$R: snf, Notch1, manual, 1227.0, 30, Main NotchFiltering, Notch1, manual, 1227.000, 30, Main
COM1>



swbi
gwbisetWBIMitigation
getWBIMitigationModeoff on
RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > Frontend and Interference Mitigation > Frontend Settings


Use this command to enable or disable the mitigation of wideband interferences, including swept-frequency or pulsed interferences. When enabled (argument Mode set to on), the in- terference mitigation is done automatically and can be monitored with the RFStatus SBF block.
Invoking this command causes all tracking loops to stop and restart.

Example
COM1> swbi, on<CR>
$R: swbi, on WBIMitigation, off
COM1>


3.2.6 Navigation Filter

sao
gaosetAntennaOffset
getAntennaOffsetAntenna
AntennaDeltaEDeltaNDeltaUType (20)SerialNr (20)+ Main
+ Aux1 all-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
m-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
m-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
mUnknownUnknownRxControl: Navigation > Receiver Setup > Antennas


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the parameters that are associated with the antennas connected to your receiver.
The arguments DeltaE, DeltaN and DeltaU are the offsets of the antenna reference point (ARP, see section 2.5 ) with respect to the marker, in the East, North and Up (ENU) directions re- spectively, expressed in meters. All absolute positions reported by the receiver are marker positions, obtained by subtracting this offset from the ARP. The purpose is to take into ac- count the fact that the antenna may not be located directly on the surveying point of interest. Each antenna can have its own marker.
Use the argument Type to specify the type of your antenna. For best positional accuracy, it is recommended to select a type from the list returned by the command lstAntennaInfo, Overview. This is the list of antennas for which the receiver can compensate for phase center variation (see section 2.5). If Type does not match any entry in the list returned by lstAntennaInfo, Overview, the receiver will assume that the phase center variation is zero at all elevations and frequency bands, and the position will not be as accurate. If the antenna name contains whitespaces, it has to be enclosed between double quotes. For proper name matching, it is important to keep the exact same number of whitespaces and the same case as the name returned by lstAntennaInfo, Overview.
The argument SerialNr is the serial number of your particular antenna. It may contain letters as well as digits (do not forget to enclose the string between double quotes if it contains whitespaces).

Example
COM1> sao, Main, 0.1, 0.0, 1.3, "AERAT2775_159 SPKE", 5684<CR>
$R: sao, Main, 0.1, 0.0, 1.3, "AERAT2775_159	SPKE", 5684
AntennaOffset, Main, 0.1000, 0.0000, 1.3000, "AERAT2775_159
SPKE", 5684
COM1>



sdca
gdcasetDiffCorrMaxAge
getDiffCorrMaxAgeDGNSSCorrRTKCorrPPPCorrIono0.0	. . . 400.0
. . . 3600.0 s0.0	. . . 20.00.0	0.0 s0.0	. . . 600.0
. . . 3600.0 s. . . 3600.0 s
RxControl: Navigation > Positioning Mode > Differential Corrections


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the maximum age acceptable for a given differential correction type. A correction is applied only if its age (aka latency) is under the timeout speci- ?ed with this command and if it is also under the timeout speci?ed with the MaxAge argument of the setDiffCorrUsage command. In other words, the command setDiffCorrUsage sets a global maximum timeout value, while the command setDiffCorrMaxAge can force shorter timeout values for certain correction types.
The argument DGNSSCorr de?nes the timeout of the range corrections when the PVT is com- puted in DGNSS mode.
The argument RTKCorr de?nes the timeout of the base station code and carrier phase mea- surements when the PVT is computed in RTK mode.
The argument PPPCorr de?nes the timeout of the wide-area satellite clock and orbit correc- tions used in PPP mode (only applicable if your receiver supports PPP positioning mode).
The argument Iono de?nes the timeout of the ionospheric corrections (such as transmitted in RTCM2.x MT15) used in DGNSS PVT mode.
If the timeout is set to 0, the receiver will never apply the corresponding correction.

Note that this command does not apply to the corrections transmitted by SBAS satellites. For these corrections, the receiver always applies the timeout values prescribed in the DO229 standard.

Example
COM1> sdca, 10 <CR>
$R: sdca, 10
  DiffCorrMaxAge, 10.0, 20.0, 300.0, 300.0 COM1>

sdcu
gdcusetDiffCorrUsage
getDiffCorrUsageModeMaxAgeBaseSelectionBaseIDMovingBaseLowLatency0.1	3600.0 sauto manual0 . . . 4095off on
RxControl: Navigation > Positioning Mode > Differential Corrections


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the usage of incoming differential corrections in DGNSS or RTK rover mode.
The Mode argument de?nes the type of differential solution that will be computed by the receiver. If LowLatency is selected, the PVT is computed at the moment local measure- ments of the receiver are available and the most recently received differential corrections are extrapolated to the current time.
The MaxAge argument de?nes the maximum age of the differential corrections to be consid- ered valid. MaxAge applies to all types of corrections (DGNSS, RTK, satellite orbit, etc), except for those received from a SBAS satellite. See also the command setDiffCorrMaxAge to set different maximum ages for different correction types.
The BaseSelection argument de?nes how the receiver should select the base station(s) to be used. If auto is selected and the receiver is in DGNSS-rover mode, it will use all available base stations. If auto is selected and the receiver is in RTK-rover mode, it will automatically select the nearest base station. If manual is selected, the receiver will only use the corrections from the base station de?ned by the BaseID argument (in both DGNSS and RTK modes).
The MovingBase argument de?nes whether the base station is static or moving.

Example
COM1> sdcu, LowLatency, 5.0, manual, 1011, off<CR>
$R: sdcu, LowLatency, 5.0, manual, 1011, off DiffCorrUsage, LowLatency, 5.0, manual, 1011, off
COM1>

sem
gemsetElevationMask
getElevationMaskEngine
EngineMask+ Tracking
+ PVT
all-90 . . . 0 . . . 90 deg
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Masks


Use these commands to set or get the elevation mask in degrees. There are two masks de?ned: a tracking mask and a PVT mask.
Satellites under the tracking elevation mask are not tracked, and therefore there is no mea- surement, nor navigation data available from them. The tracking elevation mask does not apply to SBAS satellites: SBAS satellites are generally used to supply corrections and it is un- desirable to make the availability of SBAS corrections dependent on the satellite elevation. The tracking elevation mask does not apply to satellites that are manually assigned with the setChannelAllocation command.
Satellite under the PVT mask are not included in the PVT solution, though they still provide measurements and their navigation data is still decoded and used. The PVT elevation mask do apply to the SBAS satellites: the ranges to SBAS satellites under the elevation mask are not used in the PVT, but the SBAS corrections are still decoded and potentially used in the PVT.
Although possible, it does not make sense to select a higher elevation mask for the tracking than for the PVT, as, obviously, a satellite which is not tracked cannot be included in the PVT.
The mask can be negative to allow the receiver to track satellites below the horizon. This can happen in case the receiver is located at high altitudes or if the signal is refracted through the atmosphere.

Example
COM1> sem, Tracking, 15<CR>
$R: sem, Tracking, 15 ElevationMask, Tracking, 15
COM1>



sgu
ggusetGeoidUndulation
getGeoidUndulationModeUndulationauto manual-250.000
. . . 0.000
. . . 250.000	m
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Earth Models


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the geoid undulation at the receiver position. The geoid undulation speci?es the local difference between the geoid and the WGS84 ellipsoid.
If Mode is set to auto, the receiver computes the geoid undulation with respect to the WGS84 ellipsoid using the model de?ned in 'Technical Characteristics of the NAVSTAR GPS, NATO, June 1991', regardless of the datum speci?ed with the setGeodeticDatum command. In auto mode, the Undulation argument is ignored.
The geoid undulation is included in the PVTCartesian and the PVTGeodetic SBF blocks and in the NMEA position messages.

Examples
COM1> sgu, manual, 25.3 <CR>
$R: sgu, manual, 25.3 GeoidUndulation, manual, 25.3
COM1>

COM1> ggu <CR>
$R: ggu
  GeoidUndulation, manual, 25.3 COM1>



shm
ghmsetHealthMask
getHealthMaskEngine
EngineMask+ Tracking
+ PVT
alloff on
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Masks


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire whether measurements (pseudoranges, carrier phases...) should be produced for unhealthy satellite signals (i.e. signals for which the un- healthy ?ag is set in the satellite navigation message), and whether these measurements should be included in the PVT solution.
If Mask is on for the Tracking engine, GNSS measurements are only generated for healthy signals or when the health is unknown. Signals ?agged unhealthy remain internally tracked and their navigation data is still decoded and processed, but the corresponding measure- ments are discarded.
If Mask is on for the PVT engine, measurements from unhealthy signals or from signals of which the health is unknown are not included in the PVT. Setting this mask to off must be done with caution: including a non-healthy signal in the PVT computation may lead to unpredictable behaviour of the receiver.

Examples
To track unhealthy satellites/signals, use:
COM1> shm, Tracking, off <CR>
$R: shm, Tracking, off HealthMask, Tracking, off
COM1>

COM1> ghm <CR>
$R: ghm
HealthMask, Tracking, off HealthMask, PVT, on
COM1>



sim
gimsetIonosphereModel
getIonosphereModelModelauto off
KlobucharGPS SBAS
MultiFreq KlobucharBDS
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Atmosphere


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the type of model used to correct ionospheric errors in the PVT computation. The following models are available:

ModelDescriptionautoWith this selection, the receiver will, based on the available in- formation, automatically select the best model on a satellite to satellite basis.offThe receiver will not correct measurements for the ionospheric delay. This may be desirable if the receiver is connected to a GNSS signal simulator.KlobucharGPSThis model uses the parameters as transmitted by the GPS satel- lites to compute the ionospheric delays.SBASThis model complies with the DO229 standard: it uses the near real-time ionospheric delays transmitted by the SBAS satellites in MT18 and MT26. If no such message has been received, the Klobuchar model is selected automatically.MultiFreqThis model uses a combination of measurements on different carriers to accurately estimate ionospheric delays. It requires the availability of at least dual-frequency measurements.KlobucharBDSThis model uses the parameters as transmitted by the BeiDou satellites to compute the ionospheric delays.
Unless the model is set to auto, the receiver uses the same model for all satellites, e.g. if the Klobuchar model is requested, the Klobuchar parameters transmitted by GPS satellites are used for all tracked satellites, regardless of their constellation.
If not enough data is available to apply the prescribed model to a given satellite (for instance if only single-frequency measurements are available and the model is set to MultiFreq), the satellite in question will be discarded from the PVT. Under most circumstances, it is rec- ommended to leave the model to auto.

Examples
To disable the compensation for ionospheric delays, use:
COM1> sim, off <CR>
$R: sim, off IonosphereModel, off
COM1>


COM1> gim <CR>
$R: gim IonosphereModel, off
COM1>



smv
gmvsetMagneticVariance
getMagneticVarianceModeVariationauto manual-180.0	. . . 0.0
. . . 180.0 deg
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Earth Models


Use these commands to de?ne the magnetic variation (a.k.a. magnetic declination) at the current position. The magnetic variation speci?es the local offset of the direction to the mag- netic north with respect to the geographic north. The variation is positive when the magnetic north is east of the geographic north.
By default (the argument Mode is set to auto), the receiver automatically computes the varia- tion according to the 12th generation of the International Geomagnetic Reference Field (IGRF) model, using the IGRF2015 coe?cients corrected for the secular variation.
Note that the magnetic variation is used solely in the generation of NMEA messages.

Examples
COM1> smv, manual, 1.1 <CR>
$R: smv, manual, 1.1 MagneticVariance, manual, 1.1
COM1>

COM1> gmv <CR>
$R: gmv
  MagneticVariance, manual, 1.1 COM1>



snrc
gnrcsetNetworkRTKConfig
getNetworkRTKConfigNetworkTypeauto VRS
RxControl: Navigation > Positioning Mode > Differential Corrections


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the type of the RTK network providing the differential corrections.
In most cases, it is recommended to leave the Type argument to auto to let the receiver autodetect the network type. For some types of VRS networks (especially for those having long baselines between the base stations), optimal performance is obtained by forcing the type to VRS.

Example
COM1> snrc, VRS <CR>
$R: snrc, VRS NetworkRTKConfig, VRS
COM1>



spm
gpmsetPVTMode
getPVTModeModeRoverModeRefPosStatic+ StandAloneautoRover+ SBASGeodetic1+ DGNSSGeodetic2+ RTKFloatGeodetic3+ RTKFixedGeodetic4+ RTKGeodetic5allCartesian1Cartesian2Cartesian3Cartesian4Cartesian5
RxControl: Navigation > Positioning Mode > PVT Mode


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the main PVT mode of the receiver. The argument Mode speci?es the general positioning mode. If Rover is selected, the receiver assumes that it is moving and it computes the best PVT allowed by the RoverMode argument. If Static is selected, the receiver assumes that it is static and it reports a constant position. The static position can be speci?ed by the user or computed by the receiver, according to the settings of the RefPos argument.
The argument RoverMode speci?es the allowed PVT modes when the receiver is operating in Rover mode. Different modes can combined with the "+" operator. Refer to section 2.4 for a description of the PVT modes. The value RTK is an alias for RTKFloat+RTKFixed. When more than one mode is enabled in RoverMode, the receiver automatically selects the mode that provides the most accurate solution with the available data.
The RefPos argument de?nes the reference position of the antenna ARP. This is the position that is encoded in the RINEX header (after application of the marker-ARP offset speci?ed with the setAntennaOffset command) and in the relevant RTCM and CMR differential correction messages.
If RefPos is set to Geodetici or Cartesiani, the ?xed ARP coordinates must be provided by the user with the setStaticPosCartesian or the setStaticPosGeodetic commands.
If RefPos is set to auto, the reference ARP position is computed by the receiver. In rover mode, the reference position is not ?xed. This is the setting that must be used on moving platforms.

Examples
COM1> spm, Rover, StandAlone+RTK <CR>
$R: spm, Rover, StandAlone+RTK PVTMode, Rover, StandAlone+RTK, auto
COM1>

To set up a ?xed base station at a known location, use the following:
COM1> sspg, Geodetic1, 50.5209, 4.4245, 113.3 <CR>
$R: sspg, Geodetic1, 50.5209, 4.4245, 113.3
  StaticPosGeodetic, Geodetic1, 50.52090000, 4.42450000, 113.3000 COM1> spm, Static, , Geodetic1 <CR>
$R: spm, Static, , Geodetic1
PVTMode, Static, StandAlone+RTK, Geodetic1



COM1>



srl
grlsetRAIMLevels
getRAIMLevelsModePfaPmdReliabilityoff on-12 . . . -4 . . . -1-12 . . . -4 . . . -1-12 . . . -3 . . . -1
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Integrity


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the parameters of the Receiver Autonomous Integrity Monitoring (RAIM) algorithm in rover PVT mode.
The Mode argument acts as an on/off switch: it determines whether RAIM is active or not.
The Pfa argument sets the probability of false alarm of the w-test used in the "identi?cation" step of the RAIM algorithm. Increasing this parameter increases the integrity but may reduce the availability of the positional solution.
The Pmd argument sets the probability of missed detection, which the receiver uses to com- pute the Minimal Detectable Bias and hence the XERL values.
The Reliability argument sets the probability of false alarm of the Overall Model test used in the "detection" step of the RAIM algorithm.
The value to be provided in the Pfa, Pmd and Reliability arguments are the base-10 logarithms of the desired probabilities. For instance, if you want a probability of false alarm of 1e-6, you have to set the Pfa argument to -6.
Note that this command has no effect when the receiver is con?gured in static PVT mode with the setPVTMode, Static command. In static PVT mode, the RAIM algorithm uses ?xed parameters that cannot be changed by the user.

Examples
To con?gure the receiver outlier detection with a probability of 1e-4 (0.01%) that a false alarm will be raised (type I error), a probability of 1e-4 (0.01%) that an outlier will be missed (type II error) and an Overall Model probability of false alarm of 1e-6 (0.0001%), use:
COM1> srl, on, -4, -4, -6 <CR>
$R: srl, on, -4, -4, -6
  RAIMLevels, on, -4, -4, -6 COM1>

To disable the outlier detection, use:
COM1> srl, off <CR>
$R: srl, off
  RAIMLevels, off, -4, -4, -6 COM1>



srd
grdsetReceiverDynamics
getReceiverDynamicsLevelMotionMaxStaticHighQuasistaticModeratePedestrianLowAutomotiveRaceCarHeavyMachineryUAVUnlimited
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Motion


Use these commands to set the type of dynamics the GNSS antenna is subjected to.

The Level argument sets the balance between noise and dynamics in the GNSS measure- ments and the PVT solution. If rapid displacements (such as those caused by shocks, drops, and oscillations) need to be detected, the Level argument can be set to High. In that case, high-frequency motion becomes visible at the expense of an increase in the noise. Con- versely, if noise reduction is important, the Level argument can be set to Low. It is generally recommended to keep the default value (Moderate), where the receiver will sense the dy- namics and adapt itself accordingly. The Max level is a special setting, for which the naviga- tion ?lter is disabled and the receiver computes epoch-by-epoch independent PVT solutions. Note that the Max level can lead to a longer latency of the PVT output.
The Motion argument de?nes the general characteristics of the receiver motion, such as the expected speed, rotation, and vibration level. This can help the receiver to optimize certain parameters for your application.
For example, when selecting the Pedestrian motion, signal reacquisition will be faster after a long outage, as the position is known not to have changed much.

MotionDescriptionStaticFixed base and reference stations.QuasistaticLow speed, limited area motion typical of surveying applications.PedestrianLow speed (<7m/s) motion. E.g. pedestrians, low-speed land vehicles, ...AutomotiveMedium speed (<50m/s) motion. E.g. passenger cars, rail vehi- cles. This setting is generally adequate for most applications.RaceCarHigh speed terrestrial vehicle. E.g. race cars, ...HeavyMachineryConstruction equipment, tractors, ...UAVUnmanned Aerial Vehicle.UnlimitedUnconstrained motion.
Example
COM1> srd, High, Automotive<CR>
$R: srd, High, Automotive ReceiverDynamics, High, Automotive
COM1>



ernf
grnfexeResetNavFilter
getResetNavFilterLevel+ PVT
+ AmbRTK
+ GNSSAttitude
+
AmbGNSSAttitudeall
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Initialization > Reset Navigation Filter


Use this command to reset the different navigation ?lters in the receiver. The user can reset each navigation ?lter independently or together with the value all.
The following values for Level are de?ned:

LevelDescriptionPVTReset the whole PVT ?lter such that all previous positioning in- formation is discarded, including the RTK ambiguities and the INS/GNSS integration ?lter when applicable.AmbRTKOnly reset the ambiguities used in RTK positioning to ?oat sta- tus.GNSSAttitudeReset the whole attitude ?lter such that all previous attitude in- formation is discarded and the ?lter is re-initialized, including the attitude ambiguities.AmbGNSSAttitudeOnly reset the ambiguities used in attitude computation to ?oat status.
Example
COM1> ernf, PVT <CR>
$R: ernf, PVT ResetNavFilter, PVT
COM1>



ssu
gsusetSatelliteUsage
getSatelliteUsageSatellitenone
+ G01 ... G32
+ R01 ... R24
+ R25
+ R26
+ R27
+ R28
+ R29
+ R30
+ E01 ... E36
+ S120 ... S158
+ C01 ... C63
+ J01 ... J07
+ GPS
+ GLONASS
+ GALILEO
+ SBAS
+ BEIDOU
+ QZSS
all
RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > PVT > Satellite Usage


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire which satellites are allowed to be included in the PVT computation. It is possible to enable or disable a single satellite (e.g. G01 for GPS PRN1), or a whole constellation. Gxx, Exx, Cxx , Sxxx and Rxx refer to a GPS, Galileo, BeiDou, SBAS and GLONASS satellite respectively. GLONASS satellites must be referenced by their slot number in this command.
Note that this command only allows the usage of the selected satellites in the PVT. It does not mean that the PVT will effectively use all of them: the PVT engine may only use a subset of the allowed satellites depending on its internal quality checks.

Examples
To only use GPS measurements in the PVT computation, use:
COM1> ssu, GPS <CR>
$R: ssu, GPS
SatelliteUsage, G01+G02+G03+G04+G05+G06+G07+G08+G09+G10+G11
+G12+G13+G14+G15+G16+G17+G18+G19+G20+G21+G22+G23+G24+G25+G26
   +G27+G28+G29+G30+G31+G32 COM1>

To add the usage of SBAS measurements in the PVT, use:
COM1> ssu, +SBAS <CR>
$R: ssu, +SBAS
SatelliteUsage, G01+G02+G03+G04+G05+G06+G07+G08+G09+G10+G11
+G12+G13+G14+G15+G16+G17+G18+G19+G20+G21+G22+G23+G24+G25+G26
  ... COM1>

To remove the measurement of one satellite from the PVT, use:
COM1> ssu, -S120 <CR>
$R: ssu, -S120



SatelliteUsage, G01+G02+G03+G04+G05+G06+G07+G08+G09+G10+G11
+G12+G13+G14+G15+G16+G17+G18+G19+G20+G21+G22+G23+G24+G25+G26
  ... CM1>



ssbc
gsbcsetSBASCorrections
getSBASCorrectionsSatelliteSISModeNavModeDO229VersionautoTestEnRouteautoEGNOSOperationalPrecAppDO229CWAASMixedSystemsMSASGAGANSDCMS120 ... S158
RxControl: Navigation > Positioning Mode > SBAS Corrections


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the details on the usage of SBAS data in the PVT computation. This command does not de?ne whether SBAS corrections are to be used or not in the PVT (this is done by the setPVTMode command), but it speci?es how these corrections should be used.
The Satellite argument de?nes the provider of SBAS corrections, being either an individual satellite or a satellite system. If EGNOS, WAAS, MSAS, GAGAN or SDCM is selected, the receiver restricts the automatic selection of a satellite to those that are part of the EGNOS, WAAS, MSAS, GAGAN or SDCM system. When auto is selected for the Satellite argument, the receiver will automatically select a satellite on the basis of the location of the receiver and on the availability of SBAS corrections.
The SISMode argument de?nes the interpretation of a "Do Not Use for Safety Applications" message.
When set to Operational, the receiver will discard all SBAS corrections received from a satellite upon reception of a MT00 from that satellite. Note that MT02 content encoded in a MT00 message will be interpreted by the receiver as a MT02 message: only MT00 with all '0' symbols will be interpreted as a true "Do Not Use for Safety Applications". When the argument SISMode is set to Test, the receiver will ignore the reception of a "Do Not Use for Safety Applications" message. This provides the possibility to use a signal from a SBAS system in test mode.
The SBAS standards, which have their origin in aviation, make a distinction between two posi- tioning applications: en-route and precision approach. The choice between both applications in?uences the length of the interval during which the SBAS corrections are valid. During a precision approach the validity of the data is much shorter. The receiver can operate in both modes, which is controlled by the NavMode argument.
In EnRoute or in PrecApp mode, the receiver only uses the satellite systems for which SBAS corrections are available. For best positioning accuracy, it is typically preferable to include all satellites in the position computation, even if they are not corrected by SBAS. This is achieved by the MixedSystems mode.
The DO229Version argument can be used to specify which version of the DO 229 standard to conform to.

Example
To force the receiver to use corrections from PRN 122 and ignore message MT00:
COM1> ssbc, S122, Test <CR>
$R: ssbc, S122, Test
SBASCorrections, S122, Test, MixedSystems, auto



COM1>



snu
gnusetSignalUsage
getSignalUsagePVTNavData+ GPSL1CA+ GPSL1CA+ GPSL2PY+ GPSL2PY+ GPSL2C+ GPSL2C+ GLOL1CA+ GLOL1CA+ GLOL2CA+ GLOL2CA+ GALL1BC+ GALL1BC+ GALE5b+ GALE5b+ GEOL1+ GEOL1+ BDSB1I+ BDSB1I+ BDSB2I+ BDSB2I+ BDSB3I+ BDSB3I+ QZSL1CA+ QZSL1CA+ QZSL2C+ QZSL2C+ QZSL1CB+ QZSL1CBallall
RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > PVT > Signal Usage


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire which signal types are used by the receiver.

The PVT argument lists the signals that can be used by the PVT. Removing a signal from the list will disable the usage of the corresponding range, phase & Doppler measurements in the PVT computation.
The NavData argument lists the signals for which the receiver is allowed to decode the nav- igation message. Removing a signal from the list will disable further decoding of the corre- sponding navigation data (ephemeris, ionosphere parameters ...). Beware that data decoded in the past will still be used. Past data can be erased with the exeResetReceiver, hard, SatData+PVTData command.

Example
To force the receiver to only use the L1 GPS C/A measurements and navigation information in the PVT solution, use:
COM1> snu, GPSL1CA, GPSL1CA <CR>
$R: snu, GPSL1CA, GPSL1CA
  SignalUsage, GPSL1CA, GPSL1CA COM1>



sspc
gspcsetStaticPosCartesian
getStaticPosCartesianPosition
PositionXYZDatum+ Cartesian1
+ Cartesian2
+ Cartesian3-8000000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 8000000.0000
m-8000000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 8000000.0000
m-8000000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 8000000.0000
mWGS84
ETRS89 NAD83+ Cartesian4NAD83_PA+ Cartesian5NAD83_MAallGDA94GDA2020User1User2Other
RxControl: Navigation > Positioning Mode > PVT Mode


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire a set of Cartesian coordinates. This command should be used in conjunction with the setPVTMode command to specify a reference position. The Cartesian coordinates in the X, Y and Z arguments must refer to the antenna reference point (ARP), and not to the marker.
The argument Datum speci?es the datum to which the coordinates refer. When the PVT en- gine is in static mode (setPVTMode, Static command), the speci?ed datum is re?ected in the Datum ?eld of the position-related SBF blocks (e.g. PVTCartesian). Note that the receiver does not apply any datum transformation to the X, Y and Z coordinates. In partic- ular, the coordinates are encoded without change into the relevant differential correction messages.

DatumDescriptionWGS84WGS84 or ITRFxx (the receiver does not make a distinction be- tween them)ETRS89European ETRS89 (ETRF2000 realization)NAD83NAD83(2011), North American Datum (2011)NAD83_PANAD83(PA11), North American Datum, Paci?c plate (2011)NAD83_MANAD83(MA11), North American Datum, Marianas plate (2011)GDA94GDA94(2010), Geocentric Datum of Australia (2010)GDA2020GDA2020, Geocentric Datum of Australia 2020User1First user-de?ned datum. The corresponding ellipsoid must be de?ned with the setUserEllipsoid command.User2Second user-de?ned datumOtherDatum not in the list or unknown
Example
To set up a static base station in Cartesian coordinates:
COM1> sspc, Cartesian1, 4019952.028, 331452.954, 4924307.458 <CR>
$R: sspc, Cartesian1, 4019952.028, 331452.954, 4924307.458
StaticPosCartesian, Cartesian1, 4019952.0280, 331452.9540,
4924307.4580, WGS84
COM1> spm, Static, , Cartesian1 <CR>
$R: spm, Static, , Cartesian1



PVTMode, Static, StandAlone+SBAS+DGNSS+RTKFloat+RTKFixed, Cartesian1
COM1>



sspg
gspgsetStaticPosGeodetic
getStaticPosGeodeticPosition
PositionLatitudeLongitudeAltitudeDatum+ Geodetic1-90.000000000-180.000000000-1000.0000WGS84+ Geodetic2
+ Geodetic3. . . 0.000000000
. . . 90.000000000
deg. . . 0.000000000
. . . 180.000000000
deg. . . 0.0000
. . . 30000.0000 mETRS89 NAD83+ Geodetic4NAD83_PA+ Geodetic5NAD83_MAallGDA94GDA2020User1User2Other
RxControl: Navigation > Positioning Mode > PVT Mode


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire a set of geodetic coordinates. This command should be used in conjunction with the setPVTMode command to specify a reference position. The geodetic coordinates in the Latitude, Longitude and Altitude arguments must refer to the an- tenna reference point (ARP), and not to the marker.
The argument Datum speci?es the datum to which the coordinates refer.	See the
setStaticPosCartesian command for a short description of the supported datums.

Example
To set up a static base station in geodetic coordinates:
COM1> sspg, Geodetic1, 50.86696443, 4.71347657, 114.880 <CR>
$R: sspg, Geodetic1, 50.86696443, 4.71347657, 114.880
StaticPosGeodetic, Geodetic1, 50.86696443, 4.71347657, 114.8800, WGS84
COM1> spm, Static, , Geodetic1 <CR>
$R: spm, Static, , Geodetic1
PVTMode, Static, StandAlone+SBAS+DGNSS+RTKFloat+RTKFixed, Geodetic1
COM1>



stm
gtmsetTroposphereModel
getTroposphereModelZenithModelMappingModeloff Saastamoinen MOPSNiell MOPS
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Atmosphere


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the type of model used to correct tropospheric errors in the PVT computation.
The ZenithModel parameter indicates which model the receiver uses to compute the dry and wet delays for radio signals at 90 degree elevation. The modelled zenith tropospheric delay depends on assumptions for the local air total pressure, the water vapour pressure and the mean temperature. The following zenith models are de?ned:

ZenithModelDescriptionoffThe measurements will not be corrected for the troposphere de- lay. This may be desirable if the receiver is connected to a GNSS signal simulator.SaastamoinenSaastamoinen, J. (1973). "Contributions to the theory of atmo- spheric refraction". In three parts. Bulletin Geodesique, No 105,
pp. 279-298; No 106, pp. 383-397; No. 107, pp. 13-34.MOPSMinimum Operational Performance Standards for Global Posi- tioning/Wide Area Augmentation System Airborne Equipment RTCA/DO-229C, November 28, 2001.
The Saastamoinen model uses user-provided values of air temperature, total air pressure referenced to the Mean Sea Level and relative humidity (see setTroposphereParameters command) and estimates actual values adjusted to the receiver height.
The MOPS model neglects the user-provided values and instead assumes a seasonal model for all the climatic parameters. Local tropospheric conditions are estimated based on the coordinates and time of the year.
The use of the Saastamoinen model can be recommended if external information on tem- perature, pressure, humidity is available. Otherwise it is advisable to rely on climate models.
The zenith delay is mapped to the current elevation for each satellite using the requested
MappingModel. The following mapping models are de?ned:

MappingModelDescriptionNiellNiell, A.E. (1996). Global Mapping Functions for the atmosphere delay at radio wavelengths, Journal of Geophysical Research, Vol. 101, No. B2, pp. 3227-3246.MOPSMinimum Operational Performance Standards for Global Posi- tioning/Wide Area Augmentation System Airborne Equipment RTCA/DO-229C, November 28, 2001.
Examples


COM1> stm, MOPS, MOPS <CR>
$R: stm, MOPS, MOPS
  TroposhereModel, MOPS, MOPS COM1>

COM1> gtm <CR>
$R: gtm
  TroposhereModel, MOPS, MOPS COM1>



stp
gtpsetTroposphereParameters
getTroposphereParametersTemperaturePressureHumidity-100.0  . . . 15.0
. . . 100.0 degC800.00
. . . 1013.25
. . . 1500.00 hPa0 . . . 50 . . . 100 %
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Atmosphere


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the climate parameters to be used when the zenith troposphere is estimated using the Saastamoinen model (see the setTroposphereModel command).
The troposphere model assumes the climate parameters to be valid for a receiver located at the Mean Sea Level (MSL). If you want to use your receiver with a weather station, you have to convert the measured Temperature, Pressure and Humidity to MSL.

Example
COM1> stp, 25, 1013, 60<CR>
$R: stp, 25, 1013, 60
  TroposphereParameters, 25.0, 1013.00, 60 COM1>


3.2.7 Authentication

lopklstGalOSNMAPublicKeysUse this command to retrieve the list of applicable OSNMA public keys.

The list contains user-de?ned public keys, as introduced with setGalOSNMAPublicKeys command, possibly updated with new keys provided through the Galileo OSNMA protocol (over the air).
This command is very similar to the command getGalOSNMAPublicKeys, the only differ- ence being that the latter only reports the list of user-de?ned public keys.

Example
COM1> lstGalOSNMAPublicKeys <CR>
$R; lstGalOSNMAPublicKeys
---->
$-- BLOCK 1 / 1
GalOSNMAPublicKeys, Key0, ""
GalOSNMAPublicKeys, Key1, "MFkwEwYHKoZIzj0CAQYIKoZIzj0DAQcDQgAE+ Q2wvmvfdQg1sQF6OmCEy8skCSiu79vBnRrKmaPpCJnaMOOvm26Us6ELhebL+ q75MAyWAXJjlyRZZwp68gSAHw=="
... COM1>



sopk
gopksetGalOSNMAPublicKeys
getGalOSNMAPublicKeysID
IDKey (233)+ Key0 ... Key15 all
RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > Galileo OSNMA > Public Keys


Public keys for live OSNMA operation are hardcoded in the receiver, as they are not expected to change frequently. In order to have the OSNMA function operate with live signals, the user is not required to input any keys.
However, in simulated environments, different keys may be needed and they can be provided with this command. OSNMA de?nes 16 different keys which can be provided individually with the ID and Key arguments.
The format of the Key argument is equivalent to PEM (Private Mail Enhanced), a Base64 en- coded certi?cate, but without the "-BEGIN-" header and "-END-" footer.
  If the keys provided with this command do not correspond to the Galileo keys, the receiver will not be able to authenticate live Galileo messages. Make sure to delete all user-selected keys (e.g. with the setGalOSNMAPublicKeys,all,"" command) when leaving the simulated environment.

Example
COM1> sopk, Key2, ME4wEAYHKoZIzj0CAQYFK4EEACEDOgAEnAtF3t3kbYx6tH80MEIuis+
HtLdGNGU8Cj8kUesPfc/OEbNRcbedY5iQHsc+t5bEN0GV6gkLIp0=  <CR>
$R: sopk, Key2, ME4wEAYHKoZIzj0CAQYFK4EEACEDOgAEnAtF3t3kbYx6tH80MEIuis+
 HtLdGNGU8Cj8kUesPfc/OEbNRcbedY5iQHsc+t5bEN0GV6gkLIp0= GalOSNMAPublicKeys, Key2,
"ME4wEAYHKoZIzj0CAQYFK4EEACEDOgAEnAtF3t3kbYx6tH80MEIuis+
HtLdGNGU8Cj8kUesPfc/OEbNRcbedY5iQHsc+t5bEN0GV6gkLIp0="
COM1>



sou
gousetGalOSNMAUsage
getGalOSNMAUsageModeMTRoot (65)off loose strict
RxControl: Navigation > Advanced User Settings > Galileo OSNMA > Settings


Use this command to con?gure the OSNMA processing of the receiver.

By default, the Mode argument is set to off and the authentication function is switched off. No OSNMA authentication checking is being performed and no authentication results pre- sented.
In loose mode, authentication results are reported in the GALAuthStatus SBF block and used for those satellites supported by OSNMA. In case authentication fails for a particular satellite, it is excluded from the PVT. In all other cases (authentication successful or unknown), it is used in the PVT.
In strict mode, only proven authentic satellites are included in the PVT. Satellites for which authentication is not available (e.g. BeiDou satellites) or which have not been veri?ed yet are excluded. The reported PVT solution is solely based on authenticated satellites.
Another difference between loose and strict modes is the usage of an NTP time server. In loose mode, NTP access is optional. In strict mode, it is mandatory. See also the setNTPClient command.
The MTRoot argument allows users to specify the root of the Merkle Tree used to validate new public keys. The format is an hexademical string representing the bits of the key. This is only needed in simulated environments. When using the receiver for live OSNMA operation, no Merkle Root key should be speci?ed (the argument should be left blank).

Example
COM1> sou, strict <CR>
$R: sou, strict GalOSNMAUsage, strict, ""
COM1>
COM1> sou, loose, AB20435CB64A837C8EACC6FF427416433DFE715F1607D361236A2C163B9E0A5A
<CR>
$R: sou, loose, "AB20435CB64A837C8EACC6FF427416433DFE715F1607D361236A2C163B9E0A5A  "
GalOSNMAUsage, loose, "AB20435CB64A837C8EACC6FF427416433DFE715F1607D361236A2C163B9E0A5A  "
COM1>


3.2.8 Attitude Determination

sal
galsetAntennaLocation
getAntennaLocationAntenna
AntennaModeDeltaXDeltaYDeltaZ+ Aux1
+ Base allauto manual-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
m-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
m-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
mRxControl: Navigation > Positioning Mode > GNSS Attitude


Use this command to de?ne/inquire the relative location of the antennas in the vehicle ref- erence frame in the context of attitude determination. See appendix A for a description of the vehicle reference frame.
The attitude of a vehicle (more precisely the heading and pitch angles) can be determined from the orientation of the baseline between two antennas attached to the vehicle. These two antennas can be connected to two receivers con?gured in moving-base RTK operation (moving-base attitude), or to a single multi-antenna receiver (multi-antenna attitude). Use the command setGNSSAttitude to enable attitude determination.
In multi-antenna attitude, Antenna should be set to Aux1 to specify the relative posi- tion of the aux1 antenna with respect to the main antenna. In moving-base attitude, setAntennaLocation should be invoked at the rover receiver with the Antenna argument set to Base to specify the relative position of the base antenna with respect to the rover antenna.
In auto mode, the receiver determines the attitude angles assuming that the baseline be- tween the antenna ARPs is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle, and that the aux1/base antenna is in front of the main/rover antenna (i.e. towards the direction of move- ment). The length of the baseline is automatically computed by the receiver, and the baseline may be ?exible. The DeltaX, DeltaY and DeltaZ arguments are ignored in auto mode.
In manual mode, the user can specify the exact position of the aux1/base antenna with re- spect to the main/rover antenna in the vehicle reference frame. Selecting manual mode implies that the baseline is rigid. The DeltaX, DeltaY and DeltaZ coordinates are ARP-to-ARP.

Example
In the case of moving-base attitude determination, if the moving-base antenna is located one meter to the left of the rover antenna, and 10 cm below, you should use:
COM1> sal, Base, manual, 0, -1, 0.1 <CR>
$R: sal, Base, manual, 0, 1, 0.1
  AntennaLocation, Base, manual, 0.0000, -1.0000, 0.1000 COM1>



sto
gtosetAttitudeOffset
getAttitudeOffsetHeadingPitch-360.000 . . . 0.000
. . . 360.000 deg-90.000 . . . 0.000
. . . 90.000 deg
RxControl: Navigation > Positioning Mode > GNSS Attitude


Use this command to specify the offsets that the receiver applies to the computed attitude angles.
The attitude of a vehicle can be determined from the orientation of the baseline between two antennas attached to the vehicle. By default, the receiver determines the attitude angles assuming that the baseline between the antenna ARPs is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle. Attitude biases appear when this is not the case. The user can use this command to provide the value of the biases, such that the receiver can compensate for them before outputting the attitude.
The receiver subtracts the provided biases from the attitude angles before encoding them in NMEA or in the AttEuler SBF block.
Another way to avoid attitude biases is to provide the accurate position of the antennas in the vehicle reference frame. See the command setAntennaLocation for more details.

Example
COM1> sto, 93.2, -0.4<CR>
$R: sto, 93.2, -0.4
  AttitudeOffset, 93.200, -0.400 COM1>



sga
ggasetGNSSAttitude
getGNSSAttitudeSourceMultiAntennaModenone MovingBase MultiAntenna+ Float
+ Fixed
RxControl: Navigation > Positioning Mode > GNSS Attitude


Use this command to de?ne/inquire the way GNSS-based attitude is computed.

The attitude of a vehicle (more precisely the heading and pitch angles) can be determined from the orientation of the baseline between two antennas attached to the vehicle. See also the setAntennaLocation command.
The Source argument speci?es how to compute the GNSS-based attitude:

SourceDescriptionnoneGNSS attitude computation is disabled.MovingBaseAttitude is computed from the baseline between antennas con- nected to two receivers con?gured in moving-base RTK opera- tion (moving-base attitude).MultiAntennaAttitude is computed from the baseline between antennas con- nected to a single multi-antenna receiver (multi-antenna atti- tude).
When Source is MultiAntenna, the second argument speci?es which type of attitude solu- tion is allowed for output (?xed or ?oat ambiguities). For highest accuracy, ?xed ambiguitiy mode should be selected.

Example
COM1> sga, none, Float<CR>
$R: sga, none, Float GNSSAttitude, none, Fixed
COM1>


3.2.9 Datum Definition

sgd
ggdsetGeodeticDatum
getGeodeticDatumTargetDatumWGS84 ETRS89 NAD83 NAD83_PA NAD83_MA GDA94 GDA2020
Default User1 User2RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Datum


Use this command to de?ne the datum to which you want the coordinates to refer.

TargetDatumDescriptionWGS84Equivalent to DefaultETRS89European ETRS89 (ETRF2000 realization)NAD83NAD83(2011), North American Datum (2011)NAD83_PANAD83(PA11), North American Datum, Paci?c plate (2011)NAD83_MANAD83(MA11), North American Datum, Marianas plate (2011)GDA94GDA94(2010), Geocentric Datum of Australia (2010)GDA2020GDA2020, Geocentric Datum of Australia 2020DefaultDefault datum, which depends on the positioning mode as ex- plained below except when a built-in local coordinate opera- tion is manually selected with the setLocalCoordOperation command. In that case, the datum is set accordingly to the se- lected coordinate operation.User1First user-de?ned datum. The corresponding transformation parameters must be speci?ed by the setUserDatum and setUserDatumVel commands, while the corresponding ellip- soid must be de?ned by the setUserEllipsoid command.User2Second user-de?ned datum
By default (argument TargetDatum set to Default), the datum depends on the positioning mode:
• In standalone or SBAS mode, the coordinates refer to a global datum: WGS84 or ITRF (recent realisations of WGS84 and ITRF are closely aligned and the receiver considers them equivalent).
• In DGNSS or RTK mode, the datum depends on the type of differential corrections, as can be found in the WACorrInfo ?eld of the PVTCartesian and PVTGeodetic SBF blocks. For State-Space Representation (SSR) corrections, the coordinates refer to WGS84/ITRF. Otherwise, the coordinates refer to the regional datum of the DGNSS/RTK provider.


With this command, the user can select the datum the coordinates should refer to. In case you are using corrections from a regional DGNSS/RTK provider, the datum to be speci?ed here must be the datum used by your correction provider.
When a non-default datum is selected, the receiver transforms all WGS84/ITRF coordinates to the speci?ed datum. Positions obtained using local or regional DGNSS/RTK corrections are not transformed, as it is assumed that the selected datum is the one used by the regional DGNSS/RTK provider.
In the current ?rmware version, the WGS84 value for the TargetDatum argument has no effect, but it is kept for backwards compatibility reasons. Setting TargetDatum to WGS84 is equivalent to setting it to Default.

Example
COM1> sgd, ETRS89 <CR>
$R: sgd, ETRS89 GeodeticDatum, ETRS89
COM1>



sud
gudsetUserDatum
getUserDatumDatum
DatumTxTyTzRxRyRzD+ User1
+ User2 all-2000000.00
. . . 0.00
. . . 2000000.00
mm-2000000.00
. . . 0.00
. . . 2000000.00
mm-2000000.00
. . . 0.00
. . . 2000000.00
mm-100.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 100.0000
mas-100.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 100.0000
mas-100.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 100.0000
mas-100.00000
. . . 0.00000
. . . 100.00000
ppb
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Datum


Use these commands to de?ne datum transformation parameters from the global WGS84/ITRF datum to the user datum identi?ed by the ?rst argument.
The receiver applies the linearized form of the Helmert similarity transformation. The coor- dinates in WGS84/ITRF are transformed to the user datum using the following formula:

?X ?

?Tx ?

?D + 1	-Rz	Ry

? ?X ?

??Y ??


= ??Ty ?? + ???

Rz	D + 1	-Rx ?? . ??Y ??
		

where Tx , Ty and Tz are the three translation components, Rx , Ry and Rz are the rotation angles and D is the scale factor. Note that the rotation angles are expressed in radians in the above formula, but they must be provided in milliarcsecond (1 mas = 2p/360/3600000 radians) in the arguments of the command. The sign convention corresponds to that of the IERS Conventions (2010), Technical Note No. 36.
The time derivative of the transformation parameters can be speci?ed with the command
setUserDatumVel.
For the receiver to apply the transformation parameters, the corresponding user datum must be selected in the setGeodeticDatum command.

Example
COM1> sud, User1, 52.1, 49.3, -58.5, 0.891, 5.390, -8.712, 1.34<CR>
$R: sud, User1, 52.1, 49.3, -58.5, 0.891, 5.390, -8.712, 1.34
UserDatum, User1, 52.10, 49.30, -58.50, 0.8910, 5.3900, -8.7120,
1.34000
COM1>



sudv
gudvsetUserDatumVel
getUserDatumVelDatum
DatumTxVelTyVelTzVelRxVelRyVelRzVelDVelRefYear+ User1
+ User2 all-2000.00 . . . 0.00
. . . 2000.00 mm/yr-2000.00 . . . 0.00
. . . 20000.00
mm/yr-2000.00 . . . 0.00
. . . 2000.00 mm/yr-10.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 10.0000
mas/yr-10.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 10.0000
mas/yr-10.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 10.0000
mas/yr-1.00000
. . . 0.00000
. . . 1.00000 ppb/yr1900.00
. . . 2000.00
. . . 2100.00	yr
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Datum


Use these commands to de?ne the time derivative of the seven datum transformation pa- rameters de?ned with the setUserDatum command.
For instance, TxVel is the yearly change of the X-translation component. At the epoch speci?ed with RefYear (in decimal years), the X-translation component is Tx as de?ned in setUserDatum. One year later, the X-translation component is Tx+TxVel, etc.
Refer to the setUserDatum command for a description of the datum transformation for- mula implemented in the receiver.

Example
COM1> sudv, User1, 0.1, 0.1, -1.8, 0.081, 0.49, -0.792, 0.08, 2000<CR>
$R: sudv, User1, 0.1, 0.1, -1.8, 0.081, 0.49, -0.792, 0.08, 2000
UserDatumVel, User1, 0.10, 0.10, -1.80, 0.0810, 0.4900, -0.7920,
0.08000, 2000.00
COM1>



sue
guesetUserEllipsoid
getUserEllipsoidDatum
DatumAInvf+ User16300000.000290.000000000+ User2 all. . . 6378137.000
. . . 6400000.000
m. . . 298.257223563
. . . 305.000000000
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Datum


Use these commands to de?ne the ellipsoid associated with the User1 or User2 datum.
a is the reference ellispoid semi-major axis and Invf is the inverse of the ?attening. See also the setGeodeticDatum and the setUserDatum commands.
Example
COM1> sue, User1, 6378388, 297 <CR>
$R: sue, User1, 6378388, 297
  UserEllipsoid, User1, 6378388.000, 297.000000000 COM1>


3.2.10 Transformation to Local Coordinates

smth
gmthsetENHTransfoHorizontal
getENHTransfoHorizontalTransfoID
TransfoIDDeltaEDeltaNE0N0AlphaEEAlphaENAlphaNEAlphaNN+ lt1 all-250.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 250.0000
m-250.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 250.0000
m-8000000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 8000000.0000
m-8000000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 8000000.0000
m-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
ppm-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
ppm-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
ppm-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
ppmRxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Local Transformations


This command de?nes how to adjust the easting and northing coordinates if a plane grid coordinate adjustment is enabled with the ENHTransfo argument of the setLocalCoordOperation command.
If enabled, the receiver applies the following transformation as last step in the computation of the easting and northing, prior to outputting them in the PosProjected SBF block:
 ET ! =  ES ! +  dE ! +  aEE	aEN ! . ES - E0 !
NT	NS	dN	aNE	aNN	NS - N0

where ES and NS are the easting and northing prior to the transformation, and the other pa- rameters are the arguments of this command. Note that the alpha arguments are expressed in ppm.

Example
COM1> smth, lt1, 10.904, 10.904, 156.341, 1.3, 1.34, 1.34, 1.34, 1.34<CR>
$R: smth, lt1, 10.904, 10.904, 156.341, 1.3, 1.34, 1.34, 1.34, 1.34
ENHTransfoHorizontal, lt1, 10.9040, 10.9040, 156.3410, 1.3000,
1.3400, 1.3400, 1.3400, 1.3400
COM1>



smtv
gmtvsetENHTransfoVertical
getENHTransfoVerticalTransfoID
TransfoIDDeltaHE0N0AlphaHEAlphaHN+ lt1 all-250.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 250.0000
m-8000000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 8000000.0000
m-8000000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 8000000.0000
m-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
ppm-1000.0000
. . . 0.0000
. . . 1000.0000
ppm
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Local Transformations


This command de?nes how to adjust the height coordinate if a plane grid coordinate adjust- ment is enabled with the ENHTransfo argument of the setLocalCoordOperation com- mand.
If enabled, the receiver applies the following transformation as last step in the computation of the height, prior to outputting it in the Alt ?eld of the PosProjected SBF block:
HT = HS + dH + aHE (ES - E0) + aHN (NS - N0)
where ES, NS and HS are the easting, northing and height before transformation, in meters, and the other parameters are the arguments of this command. Note that the alphaHE and alphaHN arguments are expressed in ppm.

Example
COM1> smtv, lt1, 10.904, 156.341, 1.3, 1.34, 1.34<CR>
$R: smtv, lt1, 10.904, 156.341, 1.3, 1.34, 1.34
ENHTransfoVertical, lt1, 10.9040, 156.3410, 1.3000, 1.3400,
1.3400
COM1>



slco
glcosetLocalCoordOperation
getLocalCoordOperationOpName (100)ENHTransfoNETWORKnone lt1
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Position > Local Transformations


Use this command to de?ne the set of operations needed to obtain coordinates in a local coordinate reference system (CRS). The coordinates in the local CRS can be geodetic coordi- nates (latitude, longitude and local height) reported in the PosLocal SBF block, and/or plane grid coordinates (easting, northing) reported in the PosProjected SBF block.
The list of possible operations, i.e. the list of valid values for the OpName argument, is re- turned by the lstLocalCoordOperations command. The list contains at least two en- tries: NONE, which disables the local operations, and NETWORK, which instructs the receiver to use the operation set provided by the DGNSS/RTK service provider. In addition, a number of built-in operations are also available. The NETWORK operation is the default.
If  the  OpName  argument  does  not  match  any  entry  in  the  list  returned  by
lstLocalCoordOperations, NONE is assumed.
When selecting the NETWORK mode, it is recommended to specify the regional datum in which the network operates, using the setGeodeticDatum command. This allows the receiver to continue to output local coordinates during RTK/DGNSS outages without datum shift issues. This is not needed when selecting one of the built-in operations.
In some cases, a ?nal adjustment is still needed to obtain accurate plane grid coordinates. The ENHTransfo argument can be used for that purpose. It selects a local transformation to be applied as ?nal step in the computation of the easting, northing and local height. The cor- responding transformation parameters must be set with the setENHTransfoHorizontal and setENHTransfoVertical commands. By default, this ?nal adjustment is disabled.

Example
COM1> slco, NONE, lt1<CR>
$R: slco, NONE, lt1 LocalCoordOperation, NONE, lt1
COM1>



llclstLocalCoordOperationsOperationOverview
Use this command with the argument Operation set to Overview to get a list of all built-in local coordinate operations. See also the setLocalCoordOperation command.

Example
COM1> llc, Overview <CR>
$R; llc, Overview
... Here comes the list of known coordinate operations ... COM1>


3.2.11 Timing and Time Management

scst
gcstsetClockSyncThreshold
getClockSyncThresholdThresholdClockSteering usec500 msec1
msec2 msec3 msec4 msec5RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Timing


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the maximum allowed offset between the receiver internal clock and the system time de?ned by the setTimingSystem command.
If the argument ClockSteering is selected, the receiver internal clock is continuously steered to the system time to within a couple of nanoseconds. Clock steering accuracy is dependent on the satellite visibility, and it is recommended to only enable it under open-sky conditions.
If any other argument is selected, the internal clock is left free running. Synchronization with the system time is done through regular millisecond clock jumps. More speci?cally, when the receiver detects that the time offset is larger than Threshold, it initiates a clock jump of an integer number of milliseconds to re-synchronise its internal clock with the system time. These clock jumps have no in?uence on the generation of the xPPS pulses: the xPPS pulses are always maintained within a few nanoseconds from the requested time, regardless of the value of the Threshold argument.
Refer to section 2.3 for a more detailed description of the time keeping in your receiver.

Example
COM1> scst, msec1<CR>
$R: scst, msec1 ClockSyncThreshold, msec1
COM1>



sep
gepsetEventParameters
getEventParametersEvent
EventPolarityDelay+ EventALow2High-500.000000+ EventB allHigh2Low. . . 0.000000
. . . 500.000000
ms
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Timing


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the polarity of the electrical transition on which the receiver will react on its Event input(s). The polarity of each event pin can be set individually or simultaneously by using the value all for the Event argument.
The command also allows de?ning a time delay for each event. This can be handy when the electrical transition at the event pin is not synchronous with the actual event that needs to be timed. For example, if the electrical transition occurs 100 milliseconds prior to the actual event of interest, the Delay argument must be set to 100. Delay is positive when the event of interest occurs after the electrical transition, and negative otherwise.
The event time (corrected by the speci?ed delay) is available in the ExtEvent SBF block. The position at that time is available in the ExtEventPVTCartesian and ExtEventPVTGeodetic SBF blocks and the attitude angles in the ExtEventAttEuler SBF block. Beware that, when using large Delay values in high-dynamics conditions, the po- sition accuracy may degrade.

Example
COM1> sep, EventA, High2Low, 10<CR>
$R: sep, EventA, High2Low, 10
  EventParameters, EventA, High2Low, 10.000000 COM1>



snc
gncsetNtpClient
getNtpClientModeServer (40)on offdefault
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Timing


Use this command to con?gure the retrieval of the time from an external NTP time server. Getting the time from an external source can help the receiver to perform some sanity checks on the signal received from the GNSS satellites. It is fully optional, except in case of strict OSNMA operation (see the setGalOSNMAUsage command).
If Mode is on, the receiver will attempt to get the current time from the NTP server speci?ed with the Server argument.
The Server argument accepts a host name or a raw IP address. If set to "default", a server is automatically selected by the receiver.
Accessing the NTP server requires the receiver to have access to the Internet. If the receiver is not connected to a network, the access fails with no error message.

Example
COM1> snc, on, pool.ntp.org<CR>
$R: snc, on, pool.ntp.org NtpClient, on, pool.ntp.org
COM1>



sntp
gntpsetNTPServer
getNTPServerEnableoff on
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Timing


Use this command to enable or disable the built-in NTP (Network Time Protocol) server. When enabled, the NTP server accepts UDP timestamp requests on port number 123.
Example
COM1> sntp, on<CR>
$R: sntp, on NTPServer, on
COM1>



spps
gppssetPPSParameters
getPPSParametersIntervalPolarityDelayTimeScaleMaxSyncAgePulseWidthoff
msec10 msec20Low2High High2Low-1000000.00
. . . 0.00
. . . 1000000.00 nsGPS
Galileo BeiDou0 . . . 60 . . . 3600 s0.000001
. . . 5.000000
. . . 1000.000000
msmsec50GLONASSmsec100UTCmsec200RxClockmsec250msec500sec1sec2sec4sec5sec10sec30sec60
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Timing


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the parameters of the x-pulse-per-second (xPPS) out- put. Refer to section 1.19 for additional information on the xPPS functionality.
The Interval argument speci?es the time interval between the pulses. A special value "off" is de?ned to disable the xPPS signal.
The Polarity argument de?nes the polarity of the xPPS signal.
The Delay argument can be used to compensate for the overall signal delays in the system (including antenna, antenna cable and xPPS cable). Setting Delay to a higher value causes the xPPS pulse to be generated earlier. For example, if the antenna cable is replaced by a longer one, the overall signal delay could be increased by, say, 20 ns. If Delay is left unchanged, the xPPS pulse will come 20 ns too late. To re-synchronize the xPPS pulse, Delay has to be increased by 20 ns.
The xPPS pulses are aligned with the time system set with the TimeScale argument. RxClock corresponds to the receiver time scale. When setting TimeScale to RxClock, the xPPS pulses are synchronous with the internal measurement epochs.
The xPPS timing information is derived primarily from the satellites of the system selected with the TimeScale argument. If there is no satellite from that system available, the receiver will use information from other constellations to maintain the continuity of the pulses. If all satellite signals are blocked, the xPPS pulses will continue to be generated for a duration set with the MaxSyncAge argument. If MaxSyncAge is set to 0, or if TimeScale is set to RxClock, this timeout is disabled.
The PulseWidth argument sets the duration of the PPS pulse. Note that the receiver will always stop the pulse shortly before the start of the next pulse, even if the requested PulseWidth is longer than the interval between pulses.
Note that, when Interval is off, the PPS behaves as a general-purpose output. Its level is low if Polarity is Low2High, and high if it is High2Low. The other arguments have no effect.

Example
COM1> spps, sec1, High2Low, 23.40, GPS, 60, 0.1<CR>
$R: spps, sec1, High2Low, 23.40, GPS, 60, 0.1
PPSParameters, sec1, Low2High, 23.40, GPS, 60, 0.100000



COM1>



sptp
gptpsetPTPServer
getPTPServerEnableoff on
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Timing


Use this command to enable or disable the built-in PTP (Precise Time Protocol) server.

When enabled, the PTP server will broadcast the time on the local network using the UDP transport protocol.

Example
COM1> sptp, on<CR>
$R: sptp, on PTPServer, on
COM1>



sts
gtssetTimingSystem
getTimingSystemSystemGalileo GPS
BeiDou auto
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Operation > Timing


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the reference time system for the computation of the receiver clock bias.
As part of the PVT computation, the receiver determines the offset between its own time (receiver time) and the time of the GNSS system speci?ed with the System argument. This offset is reported in the RxClkBias ?eld of the PVTCartesian and PVTGeodetic SBF blocks.
 Note that at least one satellite of the selected system must be visible and tracked by the receiver. Otherwise no PVT will be computed.
When the System argument is set to auto, the receiver automatically selects the GNSS system according to the availability of satellites. This is the recommended setting.

Example
COM1> sts, GPS<CR>
$R: sts, GPS TimingSystem, GPS
COM1>


3.2.12 Station Settings

smp
gmpsetMarkerParameters
getMarkerParametersMarkerName (60)MarkerNumber (2MarkerType (20)StationCode (10)MonumentIdxReceiverIdxCountryCode (3)SEPTUnknownUnknown0 . . . 90 . . . 9RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Setup > Station Settings


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the marker and station parameters.

The set of allowed characters for the MarkerName argument and for the StationCode argu- ment is limited to:
_0123456789ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz

The StationCode argument is the site code associated to the station (typically four characters). MonumentIdx can be used to identify the monument when there are multiple monuments at the same station. ReceiverIdx can be used to identify the receiver when there are multiple receivers at the same monument. A three-letter ISO country code can be speci?ed with the CountryCode argument.
If internal logging is enabled in one of the IGS ?le naming modes, the ?le name depends on the settings of the setMarkerParameters command. Refer to the description of the logging commands (setFileNaming, setRINEXLogging) for details.
The parameters set by this command are copied into the ReceiverSetup SBF block, which de?nes the ?le name and the header contents when converting SBF ?les into RINEX with the sbf2rin program.

Example
COM1> smp, Test, 356, GEODETIC, TST1, 0, 0, BEL<CR>
$R: smp, Test, 356, GEODETIC, TST1, 0, 0, BEL
  MarkerParameters, Test, 356, GEODETIC, TST1, 0, 0, BEL COM1>



soc
gocsetObserverComment
getObserverCommentComment (120)Unknown
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Setup > Station Settings


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the content of the Comment SBF block.

Examples
COM1> soc, "Data taken with choke ring antenna"<CR>
$R: soc, "Data taken with choke ring antenna" ObserverComment, "Data taken with choke ring antenna"
COM1>

COM1> goc <CR>
$R: goc
  ObserverComment, "Data taken with choke ring antenna" COM1>



sop
gopsetObserverParameters
getObserverParametersObserver (20)Agency (40)UnknownUnknown
RxControl: Navigation > Receiver Setup > Station Settings


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the observer name or ID, and his/her agency. These parameters are copied in the ReceiverSetup SBF block and in the header of RINEX obser- vation ?les.
The length of the arguments complies with the RINEX format de?nition.

Examples
COM1> sop, TestObserver, TestAgency <CR>
$R: sop, TestObserver, TestAgency ObserverParameters, "TestObserver", "TestAgency"
COM1>

COM1> gop <CR>
$R: gop
  ObserverParameters, "TestObserver", "TestAgency" COM1>


3.2.13 General Input/Output

scia
gciasetCheckInternetAvailability
getCheckInternetAvailabilityModeoff onRxControl: Communication > Network Settings > General


This command enables or disables the continuous checking of Internet access. When active, the check is done every 1 minute. Therefore, it may take up to 1 minute for changes in Internet availability to be reported.

Example
COM1> scia, on <CR>
$R: scia, on CheckInternetAvailability, on
COM1>



scs
gcssetCOMSettings
getCOMSettingsCd
CdRateDataBitsParityStopBitsFlowControl+ COM1baud1200bits8Nobit1none+ COM2baud2400RTS|CTS+ COM3baud4800+ COM4baud9600allbaud19200baud38400baud57600baud115200baud230400baud460800baud500000baud576000baud921600baud1000000baud1152000baud1500000baud2000000baud2500000baud3000000baud3500000baud4000000
RxControl: Communication > COM Port Settings


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the communication settings of the receiver's COM ports. By default, all COM ports are set to a baud rate of 115200 baud, using 8 data-bits, no parity, 1 stop-bit and no ?ow control.
Depending on your receiver hardware, it may be that not all COM ports support ?ow control. Please refer to the receiver Hardware Manual or User Manual to check which COM ports are equipped with the RTS/CTS lines.
When modifying the settings of the current connection, make sure to also modify the settings of your terminal emulation program accordingly.

Example
COM1> scs, COM1, baud19200, bits8, No, bit1, RTS|CTS<CR>
$R: scs, COM1, baud19200, bits8, No, bit1, RTS|CTS COMSettings, COM1, baud19200, bits8, No, bit1, RTS|CTS
COM1>



scda
gcdasetCrossDomainWebAccess
getCrossDomainWebAccessModeoff on
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > General


This command enables or disables true open access across domain boundaries according to the CORS speci?cation (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing).
Setting the Mode argument to on enables the cross-domain access to the receiver web server, and as such it allows external client applications (e.g. your own web application) to access receiver data via HTTP requests. Please contact Septentrio support for additional information on the receiver's JavaScript libraries.

Example
COM1> scda, on <CR>
$R: scda, on CrossDomainWebAccess, on
COM1>



sdcm
gdcmsetDaisyChainMode
getDaisyChainModeDC
DCMode+ DC1Raw+ DC2ASCIIallRTCMv3
RxControl: Communication > Input/Output Selection


Use this command to de?ne how data is transferred in a daisy chain con?gured with the
setDataInOut command.
By default (Mode is Raw), incoming bytes are transferred in small chunks from the input to the output connector.
In some cases, it is preferred to transmit complete ASCII strings at once. This can be done by con?guring the daisy chain in ASCII mode. A string is considered complete when a carriage- return and/or a line-feed character is received.

Example
COM1> sdcm, DC1, ASCII<CR>
$R: sdcm, DC1, ASCII
  DaisyChainMode, DC1, ASCII COM1>



sdio
gdiosetDataInOut
getDataInOutCd
CdInputOutputShow+ DSK1nonenone(off)+ COM1CMD+ RTCMv2(on)+ COM2RTCMv2+ RTCMv3(waiting)+ COM3RTCMv3+ CMRv2+ COM4CMRv2+ SBF+ USB1DC1+ NMEA+ USB2DC2+ ASCIIDisplay+ IP10 ... IP17ASCIIIN+ DC1+ NTR1auto+ DC2+ NTR2+ Encapsulate+ NTR3+ IPS1+ IPS2+ IPS3+ IPS4+ IPS5+ IPR1+ IPR2+ IPR3+ IPR4+ IPR5all
RxControl: Communication > Input/Output Selection


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the type of data that the receiver should accept/send on a given connection descriptor (Cd - see 1.1.5 ).
The Input argument is used to tell the receiver how to interpret incoming bytes on the connec- tion Cd. If a connection is to be used for receiving user commands or differential corrections in RTCM or CMR format, it is recommended to leave it in the default auto input mode. In this mode, the receiver automatically detects the input format.
It is also possible to set the input format explicitly. CMD means that the connection is to be used for user command input exclusively. RTCMv2, RTCMv3 and CMRv2 can be used to manually select the differential correction format, overriding the auto detection. ASCIIIN is used for connections receiving free-formatted ASCII messages, e.g. from an external meteo sensor.
In auto mode, the receiver automatically detects the CMD, RTCMv2, RTCMv3, or CMRv2 for- mats. The other input formats must be speci?ed explicitly.
A connection that is not con?gured in CMD mode or auto mode will be blocked for user commands. There are two ways to re-enable the command input on a blocked connection. The ?rst way is to recon?gure the connection by entering the command setDataInOut from another connection. The second way is to send the "escape sequence" consisting of a succession of ten "S" characters to the blocked connection within a time interval shorter than 5 seconds.
A connection that is con?gured in auto mode will initially accept user commands and dif- ferential corrections. However, as soon as differential corrections have been detected, the connection is blocked for user commands until the escape sequence is received.
The Output argument is used to select the types of data allowed as output. The receiver supports outputting different data types on the same connection. The ASCIIDisplay is a textual report of the tracking and PVT status at a ?xed rate of 1Hz. It can be used to get a quick overview of the receiver operation.


The Encapsulate option has the effect of encapsulating all non-SBF output into the EncapsulatedOutput SBF block. For instance, setting the Output argument to NMEA+Encapsulate instructs the receiver to encapsulate all NMEA messages into the EncapsulatedOutput SBF block.
When opening an IPxx connection, the Input and Output modes are always reset to their default value.
DC1 and DC2 represent two internal pipes that can be used to create a daisy-chain. Set the Input argument to DCi to connect the input of pipe i to the speci?ed connection. Set the Output argument to DCi to connect the output of pipe i to the speci?ed connection. The daisy- chain can operate in binary or ASCII mode, as con?gured with the setDaisyChainMode command.
After the Cd, Input and Output arguments, an extra read-only Show argument will be returned in the command reply. This last argument can take the value on, off or waiting, depending on whether the connection descriptor is open, close, or waiting for a connection.
The Input argument is ignored for output-only connections, and the Output argument is ig- nored for input-only connections. See section 1.1.5 for details.
Note that not all input connections can accept user commands, check section 1.1.5 for details.

Examples
COM1> sdio, COM1, CMD <CR>
$R: sdio, COM1, CMD
  DataInOut, COM1, CMD, SBF, (on) COM1>

On receivers that have three COM ports, to set up a two-way daisy-chain between COM2 and COM3, i.e. to have all incoming bytes from COM2 redirected to COM3 and all incoming bytes from COM3 redirected to COM2, enter the following commands from a connection different than COM2 and COM3:
COM1> sdio, COM2, DC1, DC2 <CR>
$R: sdio, COM2, DC1, DC2 DataInOut, COM2, DC1, DC2, (on)
COM1> sdio, COM3, DC2, DC1 <CR>
$R: sdio, COM3, DC2, DC1 DataInOut, COM3, DC2, DC1, (on)
COM1>



sdds
gddssetDynamicDNS
getDynamicDNSProviderUserName (40)Password (40/2)
(3)Hostname (40)Bindoff dyndns.org no-ip.comauto Ethernet
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > DynDNS


This command con?gures the built-in dynamic DNS client (DynDNS or DDNS).

Before using DynDNS, you will need to create an account and de?ne a hostname for your receiver at one of the supported DynDNS providers. The list of supported providers is shown below.

ProviderDescriptionoffDynDNS disableddyndns.orgdyndns.orgno-ip.comno-ip.com
The Provider argument speci?es your DynDNS provider, the UserName and Password argu- ments specify the account credentials at this provider, and the Hostname is the full hostname associated to your receiver. Setting the Provider to off disabled the DynDNS functionality.
On receivers with multiple active network interfaces, the receiver registers the public IP ad- dress of the interface with the highest priority (Ethernet ?rst, then WiFi), unless a speci?c interface is forced with the Bind argument.
The receiver checks every 2 minutes if the public IP address has changed, and updates the DynDNS server if needed. In addition a forced DynDNS server update is performed every 30 days. This is done to prevent the expiration of a DynDNS entry.
The DynDNS settings con?gured by this command are applied immediately and are kept upon a power cycle and even after a reset to factory default (see command exeResetReceiver).
Note that this command is not shown in the output of the lstConfigFile command.

Example
COM1> sdds, dyndns.org, Bart, MyPwd, rx1.dyndns-free.com, Ethernet<CR>
$R: sdds, dyndns.org, Bart, MyPwd, rx1.dyndns-free.com, Ethernet DynamicDNS, dyndns.org, Bart, MyPwd, rx1.dyndns-free.com, auto
COM1>








(3)	Only half of the total password length is available to the user (See Section 3.1.4 on page 66)



eecm
gecmexeEchoMessage
getEchoMessageCdMessage (242)EndOfLineDSK1 COM1 COM2 COM3 COM4 USB1 USB2
IP10 ... IP17 IPS1
IPS2 IPS3 IPS4 IPS5 IPR1 IPR2 IPR3 IPR4 IPR5 DC1 DC2A:Unknownnone
+ CR
+ LF
all
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Echo Message


Use this command to send a message to one of the connections of the receiver.

The Message argument de?nes the message that should be sent on the Cd port. If the given message starts with "A:", the remainder of the message is considered an ASCII string that will be forwarded without changes to the requested connection. If the given message starts with "H:", the remainder of the message is considered a hexadecimal representation of a succession of bytes to be sent to the requested connection. In this case, the string should be a succession of 2-character hexadecimal values separated by a single whitespace.
Make sure to enclose the string between double quotes if it contains whitespaces. The max- imum length of the Message argument (including the A: or H: pre?x) is 242 characters.
The EndOfLine argument de?nes which end-of-line character should be sent after the mes- sage. That argument is ignored when the Message argument starts with H:.
To  send  a  message  at  a  regular  interval  instead  of  once,	use  the  command
setPeriodicEcho.
When the Cd argument is DC1 or DC2, the message is injected into one of the internal daisy- chain pipes. See the setDataInOut command for details.

Examples
To send the string "Hello world!" to COM2, use:
COM1> eecm, COM2, "A:Hello world!", none <CR>
$R: eecm, COM2, "A:Hello world!", none EchoMessage, COM2, "A:Hello world!", none
COM1>

To send the same string, the following command can also be used:
COM1> eecm, COM2, "H:48 65 6C 6C 6F 20 77 6F 72 6C 64 21", none
<CR>



$R: eecm, COM2, "H:48 65 6C 6C 6F 20 77 6F 72 6C 64 21", none
  EchoMessage, COM2, "H:48 65 6C 6C 6F 20 77 6F 72 6C 64 21", none COM1>



shs
ghssetHttpsSettings
getHttpsSettingsProtocol+ HTTP
+ HTTPS
all
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > Security


This command can be used to enable or disable HTTP and/or HTTPS access to the receiver. By default, both HTTP and HTTPS are enabled.
Secure HTTP access requires the user to provide a certi?cate to the receiver. This is done by navigating to the "Communication > Web Server/TLS" page of the web interface, and up- loading a .pem ?le containing the certi?cate. By default, if no user-provided certi?cate is available, the receiver will use a self-signed certi?cate instead. The user-provided certi?cate can be erased with exeResetReceiver, hard, HTTPSCertificate command, revert- ing to the self-signed certi?cate.
Note that the HTTPS certi?cate is also applicable to the built-in NTRIP caster in TLS mode. See also the setNtripCasterSettings command.

Example
COM1> shs, HTTP<CR>
$R: shs, HTTP HttpsSettings, HTTP
COM1>



sipf
gipfsetIPFiltering
getIPFilteringModeAddrList (200)off on
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > Security


Use this command to con?gure the IP ?ltering functionality. When IP ?ltering is enabled, only the speci?ed IP addresses are allowed to connect to the receiver.
By default, IP ?ltering is off (the Mode argument is off) and the receiver accepts connections from any IP address.
When enabling IP ?ltering (Mode set to on), the AddrList argument must contain a whitespace- separated list of IP addresses (IPv4) allowed to connect to the receiver. Only IP addresses are allowed here, not hostnames. To enable a whole range of IP addresses, a netmask can also be speci?ed using the so-called "slash notation", where the IP address is followed by a forward slash (/) and the subnet mask number from 0 to 32.
After entering the command, existing IP connections are kept active, but any new connection from a non-allowed IP address will be rejected.

Example
COM1> sipf, on, 192.168.0.7 192.168.2.0/24<CR>
$R: sipf, on, 192.168.0.7 192.168.2.0/24 IPFiltering, on, 192.168.0.7 192.168.2.0/24
COM1>



sipk
gipksetIPKeepAlive
getIPKeepAliveEnableIdleTimeIntervalMaxCountoff on15 . . . 18000 s1 . . . 3600 s1 . . . 15 . . . 3600
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > General


Use these commands to con?gure the TCP/IP KeepAlive mechanism.

When enabled, the receiver sends periodic KeepAlive messages over idle IP and IPS connec- tions to solicit a response from the other end. The IdleTime argument sets the idle time after which the ?rst KeepAlive is sent. If the connection stays idle (no response received), other KeepAlive messages are sent every Interval until MaxCount KeepAlives have been sent, after which the connection is closed.
     KeepAlive messages are only sent when the connection is idle and no data is being transfered.
 Keep in mind that when the Interval is set to a low number on a high latency connection, this might cause unnecessary tra?c on the connection as well as premature disconnection.

Example
COM1> sipk, on, 20, 20, 20<CR>
$R: sipk, on, 20, 20, 20
  IPKeepAlive, on, 20, 20, 20 COM1>



sipp
gippsetIPPortSettings
getIPPortSettingsCommandFTPControl1	. . . 28784
. . . 655351 . . . 21 . . . 65535
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > General


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the port numbers where the receiver listens for in- coming TCP/IP connections.
The Command argument de?nes the port where the receiver listens for user commands. The FTPControl argument de?nes the FTP control port number.
The IP port numbers con?gured by this command keep their value upon a power cycle and even after a reset to factory default (see command exeResetReceiver).
Note that this command is not shown in the output of the lstConfigFile command.
 When selecting a port number,  make sure to avoid con?icts with other services (for example select a different port than in the setIPServerSettings and the setIPReceiveSettings commands).

Example
COM1> sipp, 12345, 21<CR>
$R: sipp, 12345, 21
  IPPortSettings, 12345, 21 COM1>



sirs
girssetIPReceiveSettings
getIPReceiveSettingsCd
CdPortModeTCPAddress (40)+ IPR10 . . . 65535TCP2Way0.0.0.0+ IPR2UDP+ IPR3+ IPR4+ IPR5all
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > General


This command con?gures the "IP receive" ports (IPR).

When Mode is set to TCP2Way, the receiver connects to the speci?ed port of a server of which the IP address or hostname is provided in the TCPAddress argument. It then receives all data sent by this server on that port. The TCP2Way connection is bidirectional, and it is possible to send data to the server or to process commands from the server.
When Mode is set to UDP, the receiver listens for incoming UDP messages on its port identi?ed by the Port argument. In UDP mode, the TCPAddress argument is ignored. Note that, contrary to the TCP connection, the UDP connection is unidirectional.
If Port is set to 0, the corresponding IPR connection is disabled.
This command is the counterpart of the setIPServerSettings command. setIPServerSettings con?gures the sender side of the communication, while setIPReceiveSettings con?gures the receiver side.
 When selecting a port number, make sure to avoid con?icts with other services (for example select a different port than in the setIPPortSettings command).

Example
COM1> sirs, IPR1, 28785, TCP2Way, 192.168.10.5<CR>
$R: sirs, IPR1, 28785, TCP2Way, 192.168.10.5
  IPReceiveSettings, IPR1, 28785, TCP2Way, 192.168.10.5 COM1>

siss
gisssetIPServerSettings
getIPServerSettingsCd
CdPortModeUDPAddress (200)+ IPS10 . . . 65535TCP255.255.255.255+ IPS2UDP+ IPS3TCP2Way+ IPS4+ IPS5all
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > General


By default (Mode set to TCP), this command de?nes the TCP/IP port where the receiver's IP Servers (IPS) listen for incoming TCP/IP connections. When a client connects to an IPS port, all output data speci?ed for that port are streamed to the client.
In TCP mode, the IPS port is unidirectional: it only sends data and incoming bytes are dis- carded. The TCP2Way mode is the same as the TCP mode, except that the receiver will also process input data (such as user commands or differential corrections). An IPS port con?g- ured in TCP2Way mode can only accept a single client at a time.
When Mode is set to UDP and UDPAddress is set to 255.255.255.255, the IPS works in UDP broadcast mode. In that mode, the IPS data stream is delivered to any host on the local network listening to the IP port speci?ed by the Port argument.
When Mode is set to UDP and UDPAddress contains a whitespace-separated list of IP addresses or hostnames, the IPS data stream is only delivered to the speci?ed hosts. Remember to enclose the UDPAddress argument between double quotes when it contains whitespaces.
Use the setDataInOut command and the various output setting commands (e.g. setNMEAOutput) to de?ne the data stream to be output by the IPS connections. Note that the UDP implementation is meant to be used with small data volumes and low update rates. It is the user's responsibility to only enable short messages at low rate when using UDP, in order to prevent throughput degradation of the network.
It is possible to con?gure some IPS connections in UDP mode, and others in TCP mode. The
UPDAddress argument is ignored in TCP mode.
 When selecting a port number, make sure to avoid con?icts with other services (for example select a different port than in the setIPPortSettings command).
All IPS connections must use different ports. Set the Port argument to 0 to disable an IPS connection.

Example
COM1> siss, IPS1, 28785, UDP, 255.255.255.255<CR>
$R: siss, IPS1, 28785, UDP, 255.255.255.255
  IPServerSettings, IPS1, 28785, UDP, 255.255.255.255 COM1>

sips
gipssetIPSettings
getIPSettingsModeIP (16)Netmask (16)Gateway (16)Domain (63)DNS1 (16)DNS2 (16)MTUDHCP
Static0.0.0.0255.255.255.00.0.0.00.0.0.00.0.0.00 . . . 1500
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > General


Use these commands to de?ne the IP (Internet Protocol) settings of the receiver's Ethernet port. By default, the receiver is con?gured to use DHCP.
In Static mode, the receiver will not attempt to request an address via DHCP. It will use the speci?ed IP address, netmask, gateway, domain name and DNS. DNS1 is the primary DNS, and DNS2 is the backup DNS. The arguments IP, Netmask, Gateway, Domain, DNS1, and DNS2 are ignored in DHCP mode.
In Static mode, the value of MTU is used as the MTU of the Ethernet port. When MTU is set to 0, the receiver will use the default MTU. In DHCP mode, setting MTU to 0 will result in using the MTU supplied by the DHCP server. When set to any other value, MTU will override the DHCP Server once the link is established.
The IP settings con?gured by this command keep their value upon a power cycle and even after a reset to factory default (see command exeResetReceiver).
Note that this command is not shown in the output of the lstConfigFile command.
The command getIPSettings cannot be used to get the current IP address assigned to the receiver by the DHCP server. The current IP address can be retrieved from the command lstInternalFile, IPParameters, or from the IPStatus SBF block.

Example
COM1> sips, Static, 192.168.1.123, 255.255.252.0, 192.168.1.255,
mydomain.local, 192.168.100.3, 192.168.100.4, 1500<CR>
$R: sips, Static, 192.168.1.123, 255.255.252.0, 192.168.1.255,
mydomain.local, 192.168.100.3, 192.168.100.4, 1500
IPSettings, Static, 192.168.1.123, 255.255.252.0, 192.168.1.255,
mydomain.local, 192.168.100.3, 192.168.100.4, 1500
COM1>



spe
gpesetPeriodicEcho
getPeriodicEchoCd
CdMessage (201)Interval+ COM1
+ COM2
+ COM3
+ COM4
allA:Unknownoff once
msec100 msec200 msec500 sec1 sec2 sec5 sec10 sec15 sec30 sec60 min2 min5 min10 min15 min30 min60
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Periodic Echo message


Use this command to periodically send a message to one of the connections of the receiver.

The Message argument de?nes the message that should be sent on the Cd port. If the given message starts with "A:", the remainder of the message is considered an ASCII string that will be forwarded to the requested connection. All occurrences of the %%CR character sequence are replaced by a single carriage return character (ASCII code 13d) and all occurrences of the
%%LF character sequence are replaced by a single line feed character (ASCII code 10d). If the Message argument starts with "H:", the remainder of the message is considered a hex- adecimal representation of a succession of bytes to be sent to the requested connection. In this case, the string should be a succession of 2-character hexadecimal values separated by a single whitespace.
Make sure to enclose the string between double quotes if it contains whitespaces. The max- imum length of the Message argument (including the A: or H: pre?x) is 201 characters.
The Interval argument de?nes the interval at which the message should be sent.
To send a message only once, set Interval to once. The only difference with the command exeEchoMessage is that exeEchoMessage cannot be stored in the boot con?guration ?le, while setPeriodicEcho can. This can be used to output a message once at each reset or reboot. The third example below shows how to do this.

Examples
To send the string "Hello!<CR><LF>" to COM2 every minute, use:
COM1> spe, COM2, "A:Hello!%%CR%%LF", sec60 <CR>
$R: spe, COM2, "A:Hello!%%CR%%LF", sec60 PeriodicEcho, COM2, "A:Hello!%%CR%%LF", sec60
COM1>

The same can be achieved with the following command:
COM1> spe, COM2, "H:48 65 6C 6C 6F 21 0D 0A", sec60 <CR>
$R: spe, COM2, "H:48 65 6C 6C 6F 21 0D 0A", sec60



  PeriodicEcho, COM2, "H:48 65 6C 6C 6F 21 0D 0A", sec60 COM1>

To let the receiver output the string "Hello!<CR><LF>" to COM2 at each reset, use the follow- ing command sequence:
COM1> spe, COM2, "A:Hello!%%CR%%LF", once <CR>
$R: spe, COM2, "A:Hello!%%CR%%LF", once PeriodicEcho, COM2, "A:Hello!%%CR%%LF", once
COM1> eccf, Current, Boot <CR>
$R: eccf, Current, Boot CopyConfigFile, Current, Boot
COM1>



sp2p
gp2psetPointToPoint
getPointToPointSessionID
SessionIDModeCdClientIP (20)ServerIP (20)AuthPassword (40/2)
(4)ConnectTimeoutActivityTimeout+ P2PP1
allOff
ServerCOM1
COM2192.168.50.2192.168.50.1None
PAP60 . . . 300 s10	. . . 600
. . . 32000 sCOM3CHAPCOM4
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > P2P Protocol


The receiver features a Point-to-Point Protocol (P2PP) server, which emulates an IP link over a serial port. To avoid confusion with Precise Point Positioning, this feature is referred to as P2PP in Septentrio receivers. This command con?gures the P2PP server.
In the current version, the receiver implements a single P2PP server, and the ?rst argument (ServerID) can only take the value P2PP1.
The Mode argument enables the P2PP server (it is disabled by default).
Cd sets the COM port to be used for the point-to-point communication. The baud rate and hardware ?ow control must be con?gured with the setCOMSettings command.
ClientIP sets the IP address that will be given to the client (i.e. your local computer) when a connection is established.
ServerIP sets the IP address that will be given to the server (i.e. the receiver) when a connec- tion is established.
Auth determines whether the client needs to authenticate itself when establishing the con- nection. PAP will use Password Authentication Protocol and CHAP will use Challenge Hand- shake Authentication Protocol. When authentication is enabled, the Password argument sets the password that will need to be supplied.
ConnectTimeout sets the maximum time, in seconds, that a connection attempt may consume before being refused.
ActivityTimeout sets the maximum time, in seconds, that a connection may be idle (no data transfer) before it is disconnected.
When a timeout occurs, the receiver will shut down the P2PP server and restart it. When a server is enabled, and the con?guration is correct, the receiver will start the P2PP server within a maximum of 30 seconds.

Example
COM1> sp2p, P2PP1, Off, COM1, 255.255.255.255, 255.255.255.255, CHAP, P@ssw0rd1, 60, 600<CR>
$R: sp2p, P2PP1, Off, COM1, 255.255.255.255, 255.255.255.255, CHAP,
P@ssw0rd1, 60, 600
PointToPoint, P2PP1, Off, COM1, 255.255.255.255, 255.255.255.255,
CHAP, P@ssw0rd1, 60, 600
COM1>




(4)	Only half of the total password length is available to the user (See Section 3.1.4 on page 66)



spfw
gpfwsetPortFirewall
getPortFirewallInterface
InterfaceOpenPortsPortList (100)+ EthernetnonealldefaultallPortList
RxControl: Communication > Network Settings > Security


Use this command to con?gure the receiver ?rewall, i.e. to specify the list of IP ports which are open to receive data.
The list of open ports can be speci?ed independently for all network interfaces. The default (OpenPorts is set to default) depends on the interface, as follows:

Interface	DescriptionEthernetBy default, all ports open.
It is possible to close all ports (OpenPorts is none), to open all ports (OpenPorts is all), or to manually specify a list of ports to open (OpenPorts is PortList). In the latter case, the list of port numbers needs to be speci?ed in the PortList argument. The different port numbers must be separated by whitespaces. The PortList argument is ignored if OpenPorts is not set to PortList.

Example
COM1> spfw, Ethernet, PortList, "21 80 28784"<CR>
$R: spfw, Ethernet, PortList, "21 80 28784"
  PortFirewall, Ethernet, PortList, "21 80 28784" COM1>


3.2.14 NTRIP Settings

snmp
gnmpsetNtripCasterMountPoints
getNtripCasterMountPointsMountPointID
MountPointIDEnableMPName (32)ExtServerUserName (20)Password (40/2)
(5)ClientAuth+ MP1offNonone+ MP2onYesbasic+ MP3allRxControl: Communication > NTRIP Settings > NTRIP Caster settings


This command de?nes the general characteristics of the mount points available on the built- in NTRIP caster. The caster supports up to three mount points.
The Enable argument disables or disables a mount point. The MPName argument is the mount point name, as it will appear in the stream record of the caster source table. Make sure to give each enabled mount point a different name.
The ExtServer argument de?nes if the mount point is allowed to receive a stream from a remote NTRIP server (argument set to Yes), or if only local streams are allowed, i.e. streams originating from the receiver's own NTRIP server. The UserName and Password arguments are the credentials needed for the remote server to feed data. These arguments are ignored if ExtServer is set to No.
The ClientAuth argument de?nes the mount point client access protection. If set to none, all clients will be able to connect without providing credentials.
Note that the caster is reset each time a setting is changed with this command.

Example
COM1> snmp, MP1, on, MyMP, Yes, MyUser, MyPwd, basic<CR>
$R: snmp, MP1, on, MyMP, Yes, MyUser, MyPwd, basic NtripCasterMountPoints, MP1, on, MyMP, Yes, MyUser, MyPwd, basic
COM1>



















(5)	Only half of the total password length is available to the user (See Section 3.1.4 on page 66)



smpf
gmpfsetNtripCasterMPFormat
getNtripCasterMPFormatMountPointID
MountPointIDFormatManualFt (30)FtDetails (100)+ MP1RTCMv2+ MP2RTCMv3+ MP3CMRallNMEARAWmanual
RxControl: Communication > NTRIP Settings > NTRIP Caster settings


Use this command to de?ne the format of the streams available on the caster mount points.

The Format argument de?nes the stream format, as will be reported in the <format> ?eld of the sourcetable STR records. It is possible to select one of the prede?ned formats, or to enter a user-de?ned format. The latter is done by setting the Format argument to manual and by providing the format string with the ManualFt argument. The ManualFt argument is ignored when Format is not set to manual.
The FtDetails argument sets the contents of the <format-details> ?eld of the sourcetable STR records.
When you need a comma in the ManualFt or FtDetails argument, use the "%%CM" escape se- quence. Do not forget to enclose the string between double quotes if it contains whitespaces.
Note that the caster is reset each time a stream format is changed with this command.
 When feeding a stream to the caster, make sure that the format of the stream corresponds to the settings in this command.

Example
COM1> smpf, MP1, manual, RAW%%CMNMEA, "SBF (1s)%%CM NMEA (5s)"<CR>
$R: smpf, MP1, manual, RAW%%CMNMEA, "SBF (1s)%%CM NMEA (5s)"
NtripCasterMPFormat, MP1, manual, RAW%%CMNMEA, "SBF (1s)%%CM NMEA (5s)"
COM1>



sncs
gncssetNtripCasterSettings
getNtripCasterSettingsModePortIdenti?er (100)TlsPortoff on0	. . . 2101default0	. . . 2102
. . . 65535. . . 65535
RxControl: Communication > NTRIP Settings > NTRIP Caster settings


Use this command to enable and con?gure the built-in NTRIP caster.

The Port argument speci?es on which IP port the caster can be accessed in "unsecure" mode, and the TlsPort speci?es on which TLS port the caster can be accessed. The TLS certi?cate is the same as the https certi?cate. See the setHttpsSettings command for details.
Note that, if Port and TlsPort are equal, TLS is disabled.
The Identi?er argument is a free text that can be used to describe the caster. If Identi?er is set to the string "default", it is replaced by the receiver name and serial number. This text will appear in the "Identi?er" ?eld of the caster record in the NTRIP source table.

Example
COM1> sncs, on, 2101, default, 2102<CR>
$R: sncs, on, 2101, default, 2102
  NtripCasterSettings, on, 2101, default, 2102 COM1>



sncu
gncusetNtripCasterUsers
getNtripCasterUsersUserID
UserIDUserName (20)Password (40/2)
(6)MountPointsMaxClients+ User1none1 . . . 10+ User2+ MP1+ User3+ MP2+ User4+ MP3+ User5allall
RxControl: Communication > NTRIP Settings > NTRIP Caster settings


This command de?nes the user accounts (user name and password) that clients can use to connect to the built-in NTRIP caster. The password must contain at least one character (empty passwords are not supported). Up to ?ve user accounts can be de?ned.
The MountPoints argument de?nes the list of mount points allowed for a given user account.
The caster can accept up to 10 concurrent client connections in total. The MaxClients argu- ment can be used to limit the number of clients that are allowed to concurrently connect using a particular account.
To delete a user account, enter this command with an empty UserName argument.
Note that the caster is reset each time a user account is added, deleted or modi?ed with this command.

Example
COM1> sncu, User1, MyUser, MyPwd, all, 1<CR>
$R: sncu, User1, MyUser, MyPwd, all, 1 NtripCasterUsers, User1, MyUser, MyPwd, all, 1
COM1>



snts
gntssetNtripSettings
getNtripSettingsCd
CdModeCaster (40)PortUserName (20)Password (40/2)
(7)MountPoint (32)VersionSendGGA+ NTR1
+ NTR2off
Server0	. . . 2101
. . . 65535v1
v2auto
off+ NTR3Clientsec1allsec5sec10sec60
RxControl: Communication > NTRIP Settings > NTRIP Server/Client settings


Use this command to specify the parameters of the NTRIP connection referenced by the Cd
argument.

The Mode argument speci?es the type of NTRIP connection. In Server mode, the receiver is sending data to an NTRIP caster. In Client mode, the receiver gets data from the NTRIP caster. Set Mode to off to disable the connection.
Caster is the hostname or IP address of the NTRIP caster to connect to. To send data to the built-in NTRIP caster, use "localhost" for the Caster argument. Port, UserName, Password and MountPoint are the IP port number, the user name, the password and the mount point to be used when connecting to the NTRIP caster. The default NTRIP port number is 2101. Note that the receiver encrypts the password so that it cannot be read back with the command getNtripSettings.
The Version argument speci?es which version of the NTRIP protocol to use (v1 or v2).
The SendGGA argument speci?es whether or not to send NMEA GGA messages to the NTRIP caster, and at which rate. In auto mode (the default), the receiver automatically sends GGA messages if requested by the caster. This argument is ignored in NTRIP server mode.

Example
COM1> snts, NTR1, Client, ntrip.com, 2101, USER, PWD, MP1, v2, auto<CR>
$R: snts, NTR1, Client, ntrip.com, 2101, USER, PWD, MP1, v2, auto NtripSettings, NTR1, Client, ntrip.com, 2101, USER, PWD, MP1, v2,
auto
COM1>



lnstlstNTRIPSourceTableCaster (40)Port0	. . . 2101
. . . 65535
Use this command to retrieve the source table from the speci?ed NTRIP caster.

Caster is the hostname or IP address of the NTRIP caster to connect to, and Port is the IP port number. The default NTRIP port number is 2101.

Example
COM1> lnst, ntripcaster <CR>
$R; lnst, ntripcaster
---->
$-- BLOCK 1 / 0 C
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Ntrip-Version: Ntrip/2.0
Ntrip-Flags: st_filter,st_auth,st_match,st_strict Server: NTRIP Caster/2.0.15
...
$-- BLOCK 1 / 0 C ENDSOURCETABLE COM1>



sntt
gnttsetNtripTlsSettings
getNtripTlsSettingsCd
CdEnableFingerprint (96)+ NTR1off+ NTR2on+ NTR3all
RxControl: Communication > NTRIP Settings > NTRIP Server/Client settings


Use this command to enable or disable TLS on the NTRIP connection referenced by the Cd
argument.

If the caster's certi?cate is known by a publicly-trusted certi?cation authority (CA), the receiver will authenticate it by following the usual CA chain of trust, starting from root certi?cates present on the receiver. In that case, the Fingerprint argument should be left empty. If the NTRIP caster uses a self-signed certi?cate or a certi?cate only known by a private CA, its SHA- 256 ?ngerprint must be provided. The self-signed certi?cate of the built-in caster (localhost) is present in the trust-zone of the receiver, and so the Fingerprint argument can be left empty for NTRIP client or server connections to localhost.
The examples below show different formats for the Fingerprint argument.

Examples
COM1> sntt, NTR1, on, ""<CR>
$R: sntt, NTR1, on, "" NtripTlsSettings, NTR1, on, ""
COM1>

Lower and upper case characters are allowed:
COM1> sntt, NTR1, on, Aa:Bb:56:78:90:12: ... 78:90:12:34 <CR>
$R: sntt, NTR1, on, Aa:Bb:56:78:90:12: ... 78:90:12:34 NtripTlsSettings, NTR1, on, "AA:BB:56:78:90:12: ... 78:90:12:34"
COM1>

When using whitespaces as delimiter, do not forget to enclose the ?ngerprint in double quotes:
COM1> sntt, NTR1, on, "Aa Bb 56 78 90 12 ... 78 90 12 34"<CR>
$R: sntt, NTR1, on, "Aa Bb 56 78 90 12 ... 78 90 12 34" NtripTlsSettings, NTR1, on, "AA:BB:56:78:90:12: ... 78:90:12:34" COM1>

It is also allowed to leave out the delimiters in the ?ngerprint:
COM1> sntt, NTR1, on, AaBb56789012 ... 78901234 <CR>
$R: sntt, NTR1, on, AaBb56789012 ... 78901234
  NtripTlsSettings, NTR1, on, "AA:BB:56:78:90:12: ... 78:90:12:34" COM1>


3.2.15 NMEA Configuration

enoc
gnocexeNMEAOnce
getNMEAOnceCdMessagesDSK1 COM1 COM2 COM3 COM4 USB1 USB2
IP10 ... IP17 NTR1
NTR2 NTR3 IPS1 IPS2 IPS3 IPS4 IPS5 IPR1 IPR2 IPR3 IPR4 IPR5+ ALM
+ DTM
+ GBS
+ GGA
+ GLL
+ GNS
+ GRS
+ GSA
+ GST
+ GSV
+ HDT
+ RMC
+ ROT
+ VTG
+ ZDA
+ HRP
+ LLQ
+ RBP
+ RBV
+ RBD
+ AVR
+ GGAaux1
+ GGK
+ GFA
+ GGQ
+ LLK
+ GMP
+ TFM
+ SNC
+ THSRxControl: Communication > Output Settings > NMEA Output Once


Use this command to output a set of NMEA messages on a given connection. This command differs from the related setNMEAOutput command in that it instructs the receiver to output the speci?ed messages only once, instead of at regular intervals.
The Cd argument de?nes the connection descriptor (see 1.1.5) on which the message(s) should be output and the Messages argument de?nes the list of messages that should be output. Refer to appendix C for a short description of the NMEA sentences.
Please make sure that the connection speci?ed by Cd is con?gured to allow NMEA output (this is the default for all connections). See the setDataInOut command.

Example
To output the receiver position on COM1, use:
COM1> enoc, COM1, GGA <CR>
$R: enoc, COM1, GGA NMEAOnce, COM1, GGA
COM1>



sno
gnosetNMEAOutput
getNMEAOutputStream
StreamCdMessagesInterval+ Stream1	... Stream10none
DSK1none
+ ALMoff
OnChangeallCOM1+ DTMmsec10COM2+ GBSmsec20COM3+ GGAmsec40COM4+ GLLmsec50USB1+ GNSmsec100USB2+ GRSmsec200IP10 ... IP17+ GSAmsec500NTR1+ GSTsec1NTR2+ GSVsec2NTR3+ HDTsec5IPS1+ RMCsec10IPS2+ ROTsec15IPS3+ VTGsec30IPS4+ ZDAsec60IPS5+ HRPmin2IPR1+ LLQmin5IPR2+ RBPmin10IPR3+ RBVmin15IPR4+ RBDmin30IPR5+ AVRmin60+ GGAaux1+ GGK+ GFA+ GGQ+ LLK+ GMP+ TXTbase+ TFM+ SNC+ THS
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > NMEA Output > NMEA Output Intervals


Use this command to output a set of NMEA messages on a given connection at a regular interval. The Cd argument de?nes the connection descriptor (see 1.1.5) on which the mes- sage(s) should be output and the Messages argument de?nes the list of messages that should be output. Refer to appendix C for a short description of the NMEA sentences.
This command is the counterpart of the setSBFOutput command for NMEA sentences. Please refer to the description of that command for a description of the arguments.

Examples
To output GGA at 1Hz and RMC at 10Hz on COM1, use:
COM1> sno, Stream1, COM1, GGA, sec1 <CR>
$R: sno, Stream1, COM1, GGA, sec1 NMEAOutput, Stream1, COM1, GGA, sec1
COM1> sno, Stream2, COM1, RMC, msec100 <CR>
$R: sno, Stream2, COM1, RMC, msec100 NMEAOutput, Stream2, COM1, RMC, msec100
COM1>

To get the list of NMEA messages currently output, use:
COM1> gno <CR>
$R: gno



NMEAOutput, Stream1, COM1, GGA, sec1 NMEAOutput, Stream2, COM1, RMC, msec100 NMEAOutput, Stream3, none, none, off NMEAOutput, Stream4, none, none, off NMEAOutput, Stream5, none, none, off NMEAOutput, Stream6, none, none, off NMEAOutput, Stream7, none, none, off NMEAOutput, Stream8, none, none, off NMEAOutput, Stream9, none, none, off NMEAOutput, Stream10, none, none, off
COM1>



snp
gnpsetNMEAPrecision
getNMEAPrecisionNrExtraDigitsCompatibilityLocalDatumMinStdDev0 . . . 2 . . . 3Nominal Mode1 Mode2off only0.000	. . . 0.001
. . . 1.000 m
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > NMEA Output > Customize


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the number of extra digits in the latitude, longitude and altitude reported in NMEA sentences and to tune certain sentences to be compatible with third-party applications that are not fully compliant with the NMEA 0183 standard.
When NrExtraDigits is 0, the latitude and longitude are reported in degrees with 5 decimal digit, and altitude is reported in meters with 2 decimal digit. These default numbers of digits lead to a centimeter-level resolution of the position. To represent RTK positions with their full precision (millimeter-level), it is recommended to set NrExtraDigits to 2.
Note that increasing the number of digits (setting NrExtraDigits to a non-zero value) may cause the NMEA standard to be broken, as the total number of characters in a sentence may end up exceeding the prescribed limit of 82.
When setting the argument Compatibility to Mode1, the GPS Quality Indicator in GGA sen- tences is set to the value "2: Differential GPS" for all non-standalone positioning modes, the Mode Indicator in GNS sentences is set to "D: Differential" for all non-standalone positioning modes, and the Course Over Ground in the VTG sentences is not a null ?eld for stationary receivers.
When setting the argument Compatibility to Mode2, the Course Over Ground in the VTG sen- tences is not a null ?eld for stationary receivers.
The LocalDatum argument speci?es whether transformation parameters sent out by the RTK service provider should be applied or not in NMEA sentences GGA and GNS. If LocalDatum is off, the transformation parameters are not applied, and the coordinates in GGA and GNS correspond to the coordinates in the PVTGeodetic SBF block. If LocalDatum is only and the relevant transformation parameters have been received, the coordinates are transformed to the local datum and correspond to the PosLocal SBF block. If the transformation param- eters are not available, the coordinates are untransformed (in particular, the datum setting of the setGeodeticDatum command has no effect). The TFM proprietary NMEA sentence can be used to determine which transformation has been applied.
The MinStdDev argument de?nes the minimum standard deviation values that can be en- coded in the GST sentence. If an actual standard deviation is below the value provided in MinStdDev, the value in MinStdDev is encoded instead.

Example
COM1> snp, 2, Mode2, off, 0.05<CR>
$R: snp, 2, Mode2, off, 0.05
  NMEAPrecision, 2, Mode2, off, 0.050 COM1>



snti
gntisetNMEATalkerID
getNMEATalkerIDTalkerIDauto GP GN
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > NMEA Output > Customize


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the "Device Talker" for NMEA sentences. The device talker allows users to identify the type of equipment from which the NMEA sentence was issued.
When the TalkerID argument is set to auto, the talker will depend on the type of solution that is output. For a GNSS solution , "GN" is used if satellites from multiple constellations are used, "GP" for a GPS only solution, "GA" for a Galileo only solution, and "GB" for a BeiDou only solution.
Note that the command is ignored for the NMEA sentences where it would con?ict with the standard. For example, the GSV sentence reporting the GPS visibility will always have its device talker set to "GP" regardless of the setNMEATalkerID command.

Example
COM1> snti, GP <CR>
$R: snti, GP NMEATalkerID, GP
COM1>



snv
gnvsetNMEAVersion
getNMEAVersionVersionv3x v4x
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > NMEA Output > Customize


Use this command to set the NMEA version the receiver should comply with.

If v3x is selected, the NMEA sentences are formatted according to the 3.01 version of the standard. If v4x is selected, system ID, signal ID and navigational status ?elds are added in some sentences according to version 4.11 of the NMEA standard.

Example
COM1> snv, v4x<CR>
$R: snv, v4x NMEAVersion, v4x
COM1>


3.2.16 SBF Configuration

smrf
gmrfsetMeas3MaxRefInterval
getMeas3MaxRefIntervalMaxIntrvlOnlyRef msec500 sec1 sec5 sec10 sec30 sec60RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > SBF Output > Customize


Use this command to de?ne at which interval to encode reference epochs (i.e. full measure- ments) into the Meas3Ranges SBF block. Refer to the description of the Meas3Ranges block for a de?nition of the reference epochs.
When generating the Meas3Ranges SBF block, the receiver automatically selects an optimal interval between reference epochs. This command allows the user to de?ne the maximum interval allowed for his application. Setting the MaxIntrvl argument to OnlyRef forces the receiver to only encode reference epochs in Meas3Ranges. This will allow to decode all epochs independently of any previous epoch, at the expense of a larger average SBF block size.

Example
COM1> smrf, OnlyRef<CR>
$R: smrf, OnlyRef Meas3MaxRefInterval, OnlyRef
COM1>



ssgp
gsgpsetSBFGroups
getSBFGroupsGroup
GroupMessages+ Group1
+ Group2
+ Group3
+ Group4 allnone [SBF List]
+ Measurements
+ Meas3
+ RawNavBits
+ GPS
+ GLO
+ GAL
+ GEO
+ BDS
+ QZS
+ PVTCart
+ PVTGeod
+ PVTExtra
+ Attitude
+ Time
+ Events
+ DiffCorr
+ Status
+ PostProcess
+ Rinex
+ RinexMeas3
+ Support
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > SBF Groups


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire user-de?ned groups of SBF blocks that can be re-used in the exeSBFOnce and the setSBFOutput commands. The purpose of de?ning groups is to ease the typing effort when the same set of SBF blocks are to be addressed regularly.
The list of supported SBF blocks [SBF List] can be found in appendix B.

A number of prede?ned groups of SBF blocks are available (such as Measurements). See the command setSBFOutput for a description of these prede?ned groups.

Example
To output the messages MeasEpoch, PVTCartesian and DOP as one group on COM1 at a rate of 1Hz, you could use the following sequence of commands:
COM1> ssgp, Group1, MeasEpoch+PVTCartesian+DOP <CR>
$R: ssgp, Group1, MeasEpoch+PVTCartesian+DOP SBFGroups, Group1, MeasEpoch+PVTCartesian+DOP
COM1> sso, Stream1, COM1, Group1, sec1 <CR>
$R: sso, Stream1, COM1, Group1, sec1 SBFOutput, Stream1, COM1, Group1, sec1
COM1>



esoc
gsocexeSBFOnce
getSBFOnceCdMessagesDSK1[SBF List]COM1+ MeasurementsCOM2+ Meas3COM3+ GPSCOM4+ GLOUSB1+ GALUSB2+ GEOIP10 ... IP17+ BDSNTR1+ QZSNTR2+ PVTCartNTR3+ PVTGeodIPS1+ PVTExtraIPS2+ AttitudeIPS3+ TimeIPS4+ StatusIPS5+ UserGroupsIPR1+ PostProcessIPR2+ RinexIPR3+ RinexMeas3IPR4+ SupportIPR5
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > SBF Output Once


Use this command to output a set of SBF blocks on a given connection. This command differs from the related setSBFOutput command in that it instructs the receiver to output the speci?ed SBF blocks only once, instead of at regular intervals.
The Cd argument de?nes the connection descriptor (see 1.1.5) on which the message(s) should be output and the Messages argument de?nes the list of messages that should be output. The list of SBF blocks [SBF List] supported by the exeSBFOnce command can be found in appendix B.
Make sure that the connection speci?ed by Cd is con?gured to allow SBF output (this is the default for all connections). See also the setDataInOut command.
Prede?ned groups of SBF blocks (such as Measurements) can be addressed in the Messages
argument. These groups are de?ned in the table below.

When using this command to output a block that is also scheduled with the setSBFOutput command, the block will be sent twice. Note that this can cause duplicate measurement or PVT epochs in the SBF stream.

MessagesDescriptionMeasurements+MeasEpoch +MeasExtra +EndOfMeasMeas3+Meas3Ranges +Meas3CN0HiRes +Meas3Doppler +Meas3PP
+Meas3MPGPS+GPSNav +GPSCNav +GPSAlm +GPSIon +GPSUtcGLO+GLONav +GLOAlm +GLOTimeGAL+GALNav +GALAlm +GALIon +GALUtc +GALGstGpsGEO+GEONav +GEOAlmBDS+BDSAlm +BDSNav +BDSIon +BDSUtcQZS+QZSNav +QZSAlm


Messages (Continued)DescriptionPVTCart+PVTCartesian +PosCovCartesian +VelCovCartesian +BaseVec- torCartPVTGeod+PVTGeodetic +PosCovGeodetic +VelCovGeodetic +BaseVector- Geod +PosLocalPVTExtra+DOP +PVTSupport +PVTSupportA +EndOfPVTAttitude+AuxAntPositions +AttEuler +AttCovEuler +EndOfAttTime+ReceiverTimeStatus+SatVisibility	+ChannelStatus	+ReceiverStatus	+InputLink
+OutputLink +IPStatus +NTRIPClientStatus +NTRIPServerStatus
+QualityInd +DiskStatus +RFStatus +DynDNSStatus +P2PPStatusUserGroups+Group1 +Group2 +Group3 +Group4PostProcess+MeasEpoch +MeasExtra +GPSNav +GPSIon +GPSUtc +GLONav
+GLOTime +GALNav +GALIon +GALUtc +GALGstGps +GEONav
+BDSNav +BDSIon +BDSUtc +QZSNav +ReceiverSetup +Com- mandsRinex+MeasEpoch +GPSNav +GPSCNav +GPSIon +GPSUtc +GLONav
+GALNav +GALUtc +GALGstGps +GEONav +BDSNav +QZSNav
+PVTGeodetic +ReceiverSetup +CommentRinexMeas3+Meas3Ranges +GPSNav +GPSCNav +GPSIon +GPSUtc +GLONav
+GALNav +GALUtc +GALGstGps +GEONav +BDSNav +QZSNav
+ReceiverSetup +CommentSupport+MeasEpoch  +MeasExtra  +EndOfMeas  +GPSNav  +GPSAlm
+GPSIon +GPSUtc +GLONav +GLOAlm +GLOTime +GALNav
+GALAlm +GALIon +GALUtc +GALGstGps +GEONav +GEOAlm
+BDSAlm +BDSNav +BDSIon +BDSUtc +QZSNav +PVTGeode- tic	+PosCovGeodetic	+BaseVectorGeod	+AuxAntPositions
+AttEuler +DOP +PVTSupport +PVTSupportA +EndOfPVT +Chan- nelStatus +ReceiverStatus +InputLink +OutputLink +Receiver- Setup +Commands +RxMessage +IPStatus +NTRIPClientStatus
+NTRIPServerStatus +QualityInd +DiskStatus +RFStatus +Dyn-
DNSStatus +P2PPStatus
Example
To output the next MeasEpoch block, use:
COM1> esoc, COM1, MeasEpoch <CR>
$R: esoc, COM1, MeasEpoch SBFOnce, COM1, MeasEpoch
COM1>



sso
gsosetSBFOutput
getSBFOutputStream
StreamCdMessagesInterval+ Stream1	... Stream10none
DSK1none
[SBF List]off
OnChange+ Res1COM1+ Measurementsmsec10+ Res2COM2+ Meas3msec20+ Res3COM3+ RawNavBitsmsec40+ Res4COM4+ GPSmsec50allUSB1+ GLOmsec100USB2+ GALmsec200IP10 ... IP17+ GEOmsec500NTR1+ BDSsec1NTR2+ QZSsec2NTR3+ PVTCartsec5IPS1+ PVTGeodsec10IPS2+ PVTExtrasec15IPS3+ Attitudesec30IPS4+ Timesec60IPS5+ Eventmin2IPR1+ DiffCorrmin5IPR2+ Statusmin10IPR3+ UserGroupsmin15IPR4+ PostProcessmin30IPR5+ Rinexmin60+ RinexMeas3+ Support
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > SBF Output > SBF Output


Use this command to output a set of SBF blocks on a given connection at a regular interval.

A Stream is de?ned as a list of messages that should be output with the same interval on one connection descriptor (Cd - see 1.1.5 ). In other words, one Stream is associated with one Cd and one Interval, and contains a list of SBF blocks de?ned by the Messages argument.
The list of supported SBF blocks [SBF List] can be found in appendix B.

Prede?ned groups of SBF blocks (such as Measurements) can be addressed in the Messages
argument. These groups are de?ned in the table below.

MessagesDescriptionMeasurements+MeasEpoch +MeasExtra +EndOfMeasMeas3+Meas3Ranges +Meas3CN0HiRes +Meas3Doppler +Meas3PP
+Meas3MPRawNavBits+GPSRawCA +GPSRawL2C +GLORawCA +GALRawINAV +GEO- RawL1 +BDSRaw +QZSRawL1CA +QZSRawL2CGPS+GPSNav +GPSCNav +GPSAlm +GPSIon +GPSUtcGLO+GLONav +GLOAlm +GLOTimeGAL+GALNav +GALAlm +GALIon +GALUtc +GALGstGps +GALSAR- RLMGEO+GEOMT00 +GEOPRNMask +GEOFastCorr +GEOIntegrity +GE- OFastCorrDegr +GEONav +GEODegrFactors +GEONetworkTime
+GEOAlm +GEOIGPMask +GEOLongTermCorr +GEOIonoDelay
+GEOServiceLevel +GEOClockEphCovMatrixBDS+BDSAlm +BDSNav +BDSIon +BDSUtc


Messages (Continued)DescriptionQZS+QZSNav +QZSAlmPVTCart+PVTCartesian +PosCovCartesian +VelCovCartesian +BaseVec- torCartPVTGeod+PVTGeodetic +PosCovGeodetic +VelCovGeodetic +BaseVector- Geod +PosLocalPVTExtra+DOP +PVTSupport +PVTSupportA +EndOfPVTAttitude+AuxAntPositions +AttEuler +AttCovEuler +EndOfAttTime+ReceiverTime +xPPSOffsetEvent+ExtEvent +ExtEventPVTCartesian +ExtEventPVTGeodetic +Ex- tEventBaseVectGeod +ExtEventAttEulerDiffCorr+DiffCorrIn +BaseStation +RTCMDatumStatus+SatVisibility	+ChannelStatus	+ReceiverStatus	+InputLink
+OutputLink +IPStatus +NTRIPClientStatus +NTRIPServerStatus
+QualityInd +DiskStatus +RFStatus +DynDNSStatus +P2PPStatus
+GALAuthStatusUserGroups+Group1 +Group2 +Group3 +Group4PostProcess+MeasEpoch +MeasExtra +GEORawL1 +GPSNav +GPSIon +GP- SUtc +GLONav +GLOTime +GALNav +GALIon +GALUtc +GALGst- Gps +GEONav +BDSNav +BDSIon +BDSUtc +QZSNav +DiffCorrIn
+ReceiverSetup +Commands +ExtEventRinex+MeasEpoch +GPSNav +GPSCNav +GPSIon +GPSUtc +GLONav
+GALNav +GALUtc +GALGstGps +GEONav +BDSNav +QZSNav
+PVTGeodetic +ReceiverSetup +CommentRinexMeas3+Meas3Ranges +GPSCNav +GPSNav +GPSIon +GPSUtc +GLONav
+GALNav +GALUtc +GALGstGps +GEONav +BDSNav +QZSNav
+ReceiverSetup +CommentSupport+MeasEpoch	+MeasExtra	+EndOfMeas	+GPSRawCA	+GP- SRawL2C +GLORawCA +GALRawINAV +GEORawL1 +BDSRaw
+QZSRawL1CA +QZSRawL2C +GPSNav +GPSAlm +GPSIon +GP-
SUtc +GLONav +GLOAlm +GLOTime +GALNav +GALAlm +GALIon
+GALUtc  +GALGstGps  +GALAuthStatus  +GEONav  +GEOAlm
+BDSAlm  +BDSNav  +BDSIon  +BDSUtc  +QZSNav  +QZSAlm
+PVTGeodetic +PosCovGeodetic +BaseVectorGeod +AuxAntPo- sitions +AttEuler +DOP +PVTSupport +PVTSupportA +EndOfPVT
+ExtEvent +DiffCorrIn +BaseStation +ChannelStatus +Receiver- Status +InputLink +OutputLink +ReceiverSetup +Commands
+RxMessage +IPStatus +NTRIPClientStatus +NTRIPServerStatus
+QualityInd +DiskStatus +RFStatus +DynDNSStatus +P2PPStatus
The Interval argument de?nes the rate at which the SBF blocks speci?ed in the Messages ar- gument are output. If set to off, the SBF blocks are disabled. If set to OnChange, the SBF blocks are output at their natural renewal rate (see section 4.1.8). If a speci?c interval is spec- i?ed (e.g. sec1 corresponds to an interval of 1 second), the SBF blocks are decimated from their renewal rate to the speci?ed interval. Some blocks can only be output at their renewal rate (e.g. the GPSNav block). For these blocks, the receiver ignores the value of the Interval


argument and always assumes OnChange. The list of those blocks can be found in appendix B (see the "Flex Rate" column).
Please make sure that the connection speci?ed by Cd is con?gured to allow SBF output (this is the default for all connections). See the setDataInOut command.
Res1 to Res4 are reserved values of Stream. These streams are not saved in the con?gura- tion ?les and, as a consequence, they will always be reset at boot time. For most users, it is not recommended to use these streams.

Example
To output the MeasEpoch block at 10Hz and the PVTGeodetic block at 1Hz on COM1, use the following sequence:
COM1> sso, Stream1, COM1, MeasEpoch, msec100 <CR>
$R: sso, Stream1, COM1, MeasEpoch, msec100 SBFOutput, Stream1, COM1, MeasEpoch, msec100
COM1> sso, Stream2, COM1, PVTGeodetic, sec1 <CR>
$R: sso, Stream2, COM1, PVTGeodetic, sec1 SBFOutput, Stream2, COM1, PVTGeodetic, sec1
COM1>


3.2.17 RTCM v2.x Settings

sr2c
gr2csetRTCMv2Compatibility
getRTCMv2CompatibilityPRCTypeGLOToDRTKVersionStandard GroupDelayTk Tbv2.1
v2.2orLaterRxControl: Communication > Input Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv2


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the compatibility of the RTCM 2.x input correction stream. This command applies to rover receivers only and should be used in case the avail- able base station correction stream is not fully compatible with the latest version of the RTCM
2.x standard.

The PRCType argument is used to handle a difference in the interpretation of DGNSS correc- tions between the version 2.0 of the RTCM standard and later versions. If the base station is sending RTCM Message Type 1 based on version 2.0, the value GroupDelay must be se- lected to have a correct usage of incoming corrections.
The GLOToD argument speci?es how to interpret the time-of-day ?eld in the differential GLONASS correction message (MT31). Select Tb to be compatible with RTCM version up to 2.2, and select Tk to be compatible with RTCM 2.3 and later.
The RTKVersion argument speci?es if the base station encodes RTK correction messages (MT18 to MT21) according to version 2.1 of the RTCM standard, or according to version 2.2 or above.

Example
To make to rover receiver compatible with a base station sending RTCM 2.2 corrections, use:
COM1> sr2c, , Tb <CR>
$R: sr2c, , Tb
  RTCMv2Compatibility, Standard, Tb, v2.2orLater COM1>



sr2h
gr2hsetRTCMv2EphemerisHoldoff
getRTCMv2EphemerisHoldoffTimeGPSTimeGLO0 . . . 300 s0 . . . 300 s
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv2


This command speci?es the delay in applying new navigation data sets when generating dif- ferential GPS and GLONASS correction messages such as MT1 and MT31.
The delay can be set independently for GPS and GLONASS satellites with the TimeGPS and
TimeGLO arguments.
Upon reception of a new navigation data set from GPS(GLONASS) satellites (IOD change), the differential corrections continue to refer to the previous data set for TimeGPS(TimeGLO) seconds.

Example
COM1> sr2h, 60, 0<CR>
$R: sr2h, 60, 0
  RTCMv2EphemerisHoldoff, 60, 0 COM1>

sr2f
gr2fsetRTCMv2Formatting
getRTCMv2FormattingReferenceIDGLOToD0 . . . 1023Tk Tb
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv2


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the reference station ID assigned to the receiver when operating in base station mode. The reference station ID is transmitted in the ?rst word of each outgoing RTCM v2.x message.
The argument GLOToD speci?es how to encode the time-of-day ?eld in the differential GLONASS correction message (MT31). Select Tb to be compatible with RTCM version up to 2.2, and select Tk to be compatible with RTCM 2.3 and later.

Examples
COM1> sr2f, 345 <CR>
$R: sr2f, 345
  RTCMv2Formatting, 345, Tk COM1>

COM1> gr2f <CR>
$R: gr2f
  RTCMv2Formatting, 345, Tk COM1>

sr2i
gr2isetRTCMv2Interval
getRTCMv2IntervalMessage
MessageZCount+ RTCM1
+ RTCM3
+ RTCM9
+ RTCM16
+ RTCM17
+ RTCM22
+ RTCM23|24
+ RTCM31
+ RTCM32
all1 . . . 2 . . . 1000
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv2


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire at which interval the RTCM v2.x messages speci?ed in the Message argument should be generated. The related setRTCMv2IntervalObs com- mand must be used to specify the interval of some RTK-related messages such as messages 18 and 19.
The interval for every message is given in the ZCount argument, in units of 0.6 seconds. For example, to generate a message every 6 seconds, ZCount should be set to 10.
For the ephemerides message (RTCM17), the ephemerides are sent out one satellite at a time, at a rate speci?ed by this command. For instance, if ZCount is set to 1 and there are 12 ephemerides to send out, it takes 0.6*12=7.2 seconds to send the whole ephemerides set.
The intervals speci?ed with this command are not connection-speci?c: all the connections which output a given RTCM v2.x message will output it with the same interval.
Note that this command only de?nes the interval of RTCM messages. To make the receiver ac- tually output these messages, use the setRTCMv2Output and setDataInOut commands.
Refer to appendix D for an overview of the supported RTCM v2.x messages.

Examples
COM1> sr2i, RTCM22, 15 <CR>
$R: sr2i, RTCM22, 15
  RTCMv2Interval, RTCM22, 15 COM1>

COM1> gr2i <CR>
$R: gr2i
RTCMv2Interval, RTCM1, 2
RTCMv2Interval, RTCM3, 2
RTCMv2Interval, RTCM16, 2
RTCMv2Interval, RTCM22, 15
  RTCMv2Interval, RTCM23|24, 2 COM1>



sr2b
gr2bsetRTCMv2IntervalObs
getRTCMv2IntervalObsMessage
MessageInterval+ RTCM18|19
+ RTCM20|21
all1 . . . 600 s
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv2


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire at which interval the RTCM v2.x messages speci?ed in the Message argument should be generated. The related setRTCMv2Interval command must be used to specify the interval of other supported RCTCM v2.x messages.
The intervals speci?ed with this command are not connection-speci?c: all the connections which output a given RTCM v2.x message will output it with the same interval.
Note that this command only de?nes the interval of RTCM messages. To make the receiver ac- tually output these messages, use the setRTCMv2Output and setDataInOut commands.

Examples
COM1> sr2b, RTCM20|21, 2 <CR>
$R: sr2b, RTCM20|21, 2
  RTCMv2IntervalObs, RTCM20|21, 2 COM1>

COM1> gr2b <CR>
$R: gr2b
RTCMv2IntervalObs, RTCM18|19, 1
  RTCMv2IntervalObs, RTCM20|21, 2 COM1>



sr2m
gr2msetRTCMv2Message16
getRTCMv2Message16Message (90)Unknown
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv2


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the string that will be transmitted in the RTCM v2.x message 16. The argument Message can contain up to 90 characters.
Note that this command only de?nes the content of message 16. To make the receiver actu- ally output this message, use the setRTCMv2Output and setDataInOut commands.

Example
To send the string "Hello" in message 16 over COM2 at the default interval, use the following sequence:
COM1> sr2m, Hello <CR>
$R: sr2m, Hello RTCMv2Message16, "Hello"
COM1> sr2o, COM2, RTCM16 <CR>
$R: sr2o, COM2, RTCM16 RTCMv2Output, COM2, RTCM16
COM1> sdio, COM2, , RTCMv2 <CR>
$R: sdio, COM2, , RTCMv2 DataInOut, COM2, auto, RTCMv2
COM1>



sr2o
gr2osetRTCMv2Output
getRTCMv2OutputCd
CdMessages+ COM1none+ COM2+ RTCM1+ COM3+ RTCM3+ COM4+ RTCM9+ USB1+ RTCM16+ USB2+ RTCM18|19+ IP10 ... IP17+ RTCM20|21+ NTR1+ RTCM22+ NTR2+ RTCM23|24+ NTR3+ RTCM31+ IPS1+ RTCM32+ IPS2+ RTCM17+ IPS3+ DGPS+ IPS4+ RTK+ IPS5all+ IPR1+ IPR2+ IPR3+ IPR4+ IPR5all
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv2


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire which RTCM v2.x messages are enabled for output on a given connection descriptor (Cd - see 1.1.5 ). The Messages argument speci?es the RTCM message types to be enabled. Some pairs of messages are always enabled together, such as messages 18 and 19. DGPS is an alias for "RTCM1+RTCM3+RTCM31" and RTK is an alias for "RTCM3+RTCM18|19+RTCM22+RTCM31".
Refer to appendix D for an overview of the supported RTCM v2.x messages.

Please make sure that the connection speci?ed by Cd is con?gured to allow RTCMv2 output, which can be done with the setDataInOut command. The interval at which each message is output is to be speci?ed with the setRTCMv2Interval or the setRTCMv2IntervalObs command.

Example
To enable RTCM v2.x messages 3, 18, 19 and 22 on COM2, use the following sequence:
COM1> sr2o, COM2, RTCM3+RTCM18|19+RTCM22 <CR>
$R: sr2o, COM2, RTCM3+RTCM18|19+RTCM22 RTCMv2Output, COM2, RTCM3+RTCM18|19+RTCM22
COM1> sdio, COM2, , RTCMv2 <CR>
$R: sdio, COM2, , RTCMv2 DataInOut, COM2, auto, RTCMv2
COM1>



sr2u
gr2usetRTCMv2Usage
getRTCMv2UsageMsgUsagenone
+ RTCM1
+ RTCM3
+ RTCM9
+ RTCM15
+ RTCM18|19
+ RTCM20|21
+ RTCM22
+ RTCM23|24
+ RTCM31
+ RTCM32
+ RTCM34
+ RTCM17
+ RTCM59
all
RxControl: Communication > Input Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv2


Use this command to restrict the list of incoming RTCM v2.x messages that the receiver is allowed to use in its differential PVT computation.
A short description of the supported RTCM v2.x messages can be found in appendix D.

Example
To only accept RTCM1 and RTCM3 corrections from the base station 1011, use the following sequence:
COM1> sr2u, RTCM1+RTCM3 <CR>
$R: sr2u, RTCM1+RTCM3 RTCMv2Usage, RTCM1+RTCM3
COM1> sdcu, , , manual, 1011 <CR>
$R: sdcu, , , manual, 1011
DiffCorrUsage, LowLatency, 3600.0, manual, 1011 ...
COM1>


3.2.18 RTCM v3.x Settings

sr3t
gr3tsetRTCMv3CRSTransfo
getRTCMv3CRSTransfoModeTargetName (32)auto manualRxControl: Communication > Input Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv3


Use this command to specify how to apply the coordinate reference system (CRS) transfor- mation parameters contained in RTCM v3.x message types 1021 to 1023.
In auto mode (the default), the receiver decodes and applies the coordinate transforma- tion parameters from message types 1021-1023. If your RTK provider sends transformation parameters for more than one target CRS, the receiver selects the ?rst transformation pa- rameters it receives.
In manual mode, you can force the receiver to only apply the transformation to the tar- get CRS speci?ed with the second argument. The TargetName argument must exactly match the name used by the RTK provider. The available target datum names can be found in the RTCMDatum SBF block.

Example
To force using the target CRS identi?ed as "4258" by the RTK network, use:
COM1> sr3t, manual, "4258"<CR>
$R: sr3t, manual, "4258" RTCMv3CRSTransfo, manual, "4258"
COM1>



sr3d
gr3dsetRTCMv3Delay
getRTCMv3DelayDelay0.0	600.0 s
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv3


Use this command to instruct the receiver to generate and output RTCM v3.x messages with a certain delay.
It is possible to impose a global delay to all RTCM v3.x messages by setting the Delay to a non- zero value. This can be used in situations where multiple base stations must be con?gured to transmit their corrections in a time-multiplexed way. For example, base station A would compute and transmit its corrections at every 10-second epoch (in the GPS time scale), and base station B would compute and transmit its corrections 5 seconds after the 10-second epochs. In that case, receiver B would be con?gured with the Delay argument set to 5.
See also the setRTCMv3Interval command to con?gure the message interval.

Example
To generate the RTCM1001 message with an interval of 10 seconds and a time shift of 2 seconds, use:
COM1> sr3i, RTCM1001|2, 10 <CR>
$R: sr3i, RTCM1001|2, 10
  RTCMv3Interval, RTCM1001|2, 10 COM1> sr3d, 2 <CR>
$R: sr3d, 2
  RTCMv3Delay, 2 COM1>



sr3f
gr3fsetRTCMv3Formatting
getRTCMv3FormattingReferenceIDMSMSignalsGLOL2RxType (32)MaxMSMSats0 . . . 4095+ GPSL1CA
+ GPSL2PY
+ GPSL2C
+ GLOL1CA
+ GLOL2CA
+ GALL1BC
+ GALE5b
+ GEOL1
+ BDSB1I
+ BDSB2I
+ BDSB3I
+ QZSL1CA
+ QZSL2C
allL2CAdefault1 . . . 128
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv3


Use these commands to con?gure the RTCM v3.x message contents when operating in base station mode.
The ReferenceID argument speci?es the reference station ID transmitted in the header of each outgoing RTCM v3.x message.
The MSMSignals argument speci?es the signal types to be encoded in MSM messages. For an observable to be actually encoded in MSM, the corresponding signal type must be enabled with this command, the signal must be enabled for tracking (see the setSignalTracking command), and a suitable MSM message must be enabled with the setRTCMv3Output com- mand.
The MaxMSMSats argument speci?es the maximum number of satellites to be encoded in the MSM messages of the same epoch.
The GLOL2 argument applies to message types 1011 and 1012 (GLONASS L1 and L2 observ- ables). It speci?es which of the L2P or the L2CA observables must be encoded in RTCM1011 and RTCM1012.
The RxType argument can be used to change the receiver type that is transmitted in message 1033, i.e. to change the way the receiver identi?es itself to the RTCM network. Setting RxType to "default" reverts to the default receiver type.

Example
COM1> sr3f, 345, GPSL1CA+GPSL2PY+GLOL1CA+GLOL2CA+GALE1BC+GALE5b+BDSB1I+BDSB3I,
L2CA, default, 28<CR>
$R: sr3f, 345, GPSL1CA+GPSL2PY+GLOL1CA+GLOL2CA+GALE1BC+GALE5b+ BDSB1I+BDSB3I, L2CA, default, 28
RTCMv3Formatting, 345, GPSL1CA+GPSL2PY+GLOL1CA+GLOL2CA+GALE1BC+ GALE5b+BDSB1I+BDSB3I, L2CA, default, 28
COM1>



sr3i
gr3isetRTCMv3Interval
getRTCMv3IntervalMessage
MessageInterval+ RTCM1001|20.1	. . . 1.0+ RTCM1003|4. . . 600.0 s+ RTCM1005|6+ RTCM1007|8+ RTCM1009|10+ RTCM1011|12+ RTCM1013+ RTCM1019+ RTCM1020+ RTCM1029+ RTCM1033+ RTCM1042+ RTCM1044+ RTCM1046+ RTCM1230+ MSM1 ... MSM7all
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv3


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire at which interval RTCM v3.x messages should be gen- erated.
The intervals speci?ed with this command are not connection-speci?c: all the connections which output a given RTCM v3.x message will output it with the same interval.
Using MSMi for the Message argument sets the interval of all Multiple Signal Messages of type
i. Refer to appendix D for an overview of the supported RTCM v3.x messages.
For the ephemerides messages (e.g. RTCM1019), the ephemerides are sent out one satellite at a time, at a rate speci?ed by this command. For instance, if Interval is set to 1 and there are 12 GPS ephemerides to send out, it takes 12 seconds to send the whole GPS ephemerides set.
By default, RTCM v3.x messages are generated at integer multiples of the speci?ed interval in the GPS time scale. The command setRTCMv3Delay can be used to introduce a time offset.
Note that this command only de?nes the interval of RTCM messages. To make the receiver ac- tually output these messages, use the setRTCMv3Output and setDataInOut commands.

Example
COM1> sr3i, RTCM1001|2, 2 <CR>
$R: sr3i, RTCM1001|2, 2
  RTCMv3Interval, RTCM1001|2, 2 COM1>



sr3m
gr3msetRTCMv3Message1029
getRTCMv3Message1029Message (120)Unknown
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv3


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the string that will be transmitted in the RTCM v3.x message 1029. The argument Message can contain up to 120 characters.
Note that this command only de?nes the content of message 1029. To make the receiver actually output this message, use the setRTCMv3Output and setDataInOut commands.

Example
To send the string "Hello" in message 1029 over COM2 at the default interval, use the follow- ing sequence:
COM1> sr3m, Hello <CR>
$R: sr3m, Hello RTCMv3Message1029, "Hello"
COM1> sr3o, COM2, RTCM1029 <CR>
$R: sr3o, COM2, RTCM1029 RTCMv3Output, COM2, RTCM1029
COM1> sdio, COM2, , RTCMv3 <CR>
$R: sdio, COM2, , RTCMv3 DataInOut, COM2, auto, RTCMv3
COM1>



sr3o
gr3osetRTCMv3Output
getRTCMv3OutputCd
CdMessages+ COM1none+ COM2+ RTCM1001+ COM3+ RTCM1002+ COM4+ RTCM1003+ USB1+ RTCM1004+ USB2+ RTCM1005+ IP10 ... IP17+ RTCM1006+ NTR1
+ NTR2
+ NTR3
+ IPS1
+ IPS2
+ IPS3
+ IPS4
+ IPS5
+ IPR1
+ IPR2
+ IPR3
+ IPR4
+ IPR5
all+ RTCM1007 ... RTCM1013
+ RTCM1019
+ RTCM1020
+ RTCM1029
+ RTCM1033
+ RTCM1042
+ RTCM1044
+ RTCM1046
+ RTCM1071
+ RTCM1072
+ RTCM1073
+ RTCM1074
+ RTCM1075
+ RTCM1076+ RTCM1077+ RTCM1081+ RTCM1082+ RTCM1083+ RTCM1084+ RTCM1085+ RTCM1086+ RTCM1087+ RTCM1091+ RTCM1092+ RTCM1093+ RTCM1094+ RTCM1095+ RTCM1096+ RTCM1097+ RTCM1101  ...RTCM1107+ RTCM1111  ...RTCM1117+ RTCM1121+ RTCM1122+ RTCM1123+ RTCM1124+ RTCM1125+ RTCM1126+ RTCM1127+ RTCM1230+ MSM1+ MSM2+ MSM3+ MSM4+ MSM5+ MSM6+ MSM7+ Navall
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv3


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire which RTCM v3.x messages are enabled for output on a given connection descriptor (Cd - see 1.1.5 ). The Messages argument speci?es the RTCM message types to be enabled.


A short description of the supported RTCM v3.x message types can be found in appendix
D. MSMi enables the Multiple Signal Message - Type i from all constellations. Make sure to disable the legacy observation messages (MT1001-1004 and MT1009-1012) when enabling MSM messages as it is not advised to mix them.
Please make sure that the connection speci?ed by Cd is con?gured to allow RTCMv3 output, which can be done with the setDataInOut command. The interval at which each message is output is to be speci?ed with the setRTCMv3Interval command.

Example
To enable RTCM v3.x messages 1001, 1002, 1005 and 1006 on COM2, use the following se- quence:
COM1> sr3o, COM2, RTCM1001+RTCM1002+RTCM1005+RTCM1006 <CR>
$R: sr3o, COM2, RTCM1001+RTCM1002+RTCM1005+RTCM1006 RTCMv3Output, COM2, RTCM1001+RTCM1002+RTCM1005+RTCM1006
COM1> sdio, COM2, , RTCMv3 <CR>
$R: sdio, COM2, , RTCMv3 DataInOut, COM2, auto, RTCMv3
COM1>



sr3u
gr3usetRTCMv3Usage
getRTCMv3UsageMsgUsagenone
+ RTCM1001 ... RTCM1013
+ RTCM1015
+ RTCM1016
+ RTCM1017
+ RTCM1019 ... RTCM1027
+ RTCM1029
+ RTCM1033
+ RTCM1037
+ RTCM1038
+ RTCM1039
+ RTCM1042
+ RTCM1044
+ RTCM1046
+ RTCM1071 ... RTCM1077
+ RTCM1081 ... RTCM1087
+ RTCM1091 ... RTCM1097
+ RTCM1111 ... RTCM1117
+ RTCM1121 ... RTCM1127
+ RTCM1230
+ MSM1
+ MSM2
+ MSM3
+ MSM4
+ MSM5
+ MSM6
+ MSM7
+ Nav all
RxControl: Communication > Input Settings > Differential Corrections > RTCMv3


Use this command to restrict the list of incoming RTCM v3.x messages that the receiver is allowed to use in its differential PVT computation.
A short description of the supported RTCM v3.x messages can be found in appendix D. MSMi is an alias to enable the Multiple Signal Message - Type i from all constellations at once.

Example
To only accept RTCM1001 and RTCM1002 corrections from the base station 1011, use the following sequence:
COM1> sr3u, RTCM1001+RTCM1002 <CR>
$R: sr3u, RTCM1001+RTCM1002 RTCMv3Usage, RTCM1001+RTCM1002
COM1> sdcu, , , manual, 1011 <CR>
$R: sdcu, , , manual, 1011
DiffCorrUsage, LowLatency, 3600.0, manual, 1011 ...
COM1>


3.2.19 CMR v2.0 Settings

sc2f
gc2fsetCMRv2Formatting
getCMRv2FormattingReferenceID0 . . . 31RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > CMRv2


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the reference station ID assigned to the receiver when operating in base station mode. The reference station ID is transmitted in the header of each outgoing CMR v2.0 message.

Examples
COM1> sc2f, 12 <CR>
$R: sc2f, 12
  CMRv2Formatting, 12 COM1>

COM1> gc2f <CR>
$R: gc2f CMRv2Formatting, 12
COM1>



sc2i
gc2isetCMRv2Interval
getCMRv2IntervalMessage
MessageInterval+ CMR0
+ CMR10.1	. . . 1.0
. . . 600.0 s+ CMR2+ CMR3all
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > CMRv2


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire at which interval CMR v2.0 messages should be gen- erated.
The intervals speci?ed with this command are not connection-speci?c: all the connections which output a given CMR v2.0 message will output it with the same interval.
Note that this command only de?nes the interval of CMR messages. To make the receiver actually output these messages, use the setCMRv2Output and setDataInOut commands.
Refer to appendix D for an overview of the supported CMR v2.0 messages.

Examples
COM1> sc2i, CMR0, 2 <CR>
$R: sc2i, CMR0, 2
  CMRv2Interval, CMR0, 2 COM1>

COM1> gc2i <CR>
$R: gc2i CMRv2Interval, CMR0, 2
  CMRv2Interval, CMR1, 1 CMRv2Interval, CMR2, 1 COM1>



sc2m
gc2msetCMRv2Message2
getCMRv2Message2ShortID (8)LongID (50)COGO (16)UnknownUnknownUnknown
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > CMRv2


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the strings that will be transmitted in the CMR v2.0 message 2.
The argument ShortID is the short station ID. It can contain up to 8 characters in compliance with the CMR standard. If less than 8 characters are de?ned, the string will be right justi?ed and padded with spaces.
The argument LongID is the long station ID. It can contain up to 50 characters in compliance with the CMR standard. If less than 50 characters are de?ned, the string will be right justi?ed and padded with spaces.
The argument COGO is the COGO code. It can contain up to 16 characters in compliance with the CMR standard. If less than 16 characters are de?ned, the string will be right justi?ed and padded with spaces.
Note that this command only de?nes the contents of message 2. To make the receiver actu- ally output this message, use the setCMRv2Output and setDataInOut commands.

Example
To send the string "Hello" as short station ID and send CMR2 messages through COM2, use the following sequence:
COM1> sc2m, Hello <CR>
$R: sc2m, Hello
  CMRv2Message2, "Hello", "Unknown", "Unknown" COM1> sc2o, COM2, CMR2 <CR>
$R: sc2o, COM2, CMR2 CMRv2Output, COM2, CMR2
COM1> sdio, COM2, , CMRv2 <CR>
$R: sdio, COM2, , CMRv2 DataInOut, COM2, auto, CMRv2
COM1>



sc2o
gc2osetCMRv2Output
getCMRv2OutputCd
CdMessages+ COM1
+ COM2
+ COM3
+ COM4
+ USB1
+ USB2
+ IP10 ... IP17
+ NTR1
+ NTR2
+ NTR3
+ IPS1
+ IPS2
+ IPS3
+ IPS4
+ IPS5
+ IPR1
+ IPR2
+ IPR3
+ IPR4
+ IPR5
allnone
+ CMR0
+ CMR1
+ CMR2
+ CMR3
all
RxControl: Communication > Output Settings > Differential Corrections > CMRv2


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire which CMR v2.0 messages are enabled for output on a given connection descriptor (Cd - see 1.1.5 ). The Messages argument speci?es the CMR message types to be enabled. Refer to appendix D for an overview of the supported CMR v2.0 messages.
Please make sure that the connection speci?ed by Cd is con?gured to allow CMRv2 output, which can be done with the setDataInOut command. The interval at which each message is output is to be speci?ed with the setCMRv2Interval command.

Example
To enable CMR v2.0 message 0 on COM2, use the following sequence:
COM1> sc2o, COM2, CMR0 <CR>
$R: sc2o, COM2, CMR0 CMRv2Output, COM2, CMR0
COM1> sdio, COM2, , CMRv2 <CR>
$R: sdio, COM2, , CMRv2 DataInOut, COM2, auto, CMRv2
COM1>



sc2u
gc2usetCMRv2Usage
getCMRv2UsageMsgUsagenone
+ CMR0
+ CMR1
+ CMR2
+ CMR3
+ CMR0p
+ CMR0w
all
RxControl: Communication > Input Settings > Differential Corrections > CMRv2


Use this command to restrict the list of incoming CMR v2.0 messages that the receiver is allowed to use in its differential PVT computation. CMR0p and CMR0w refer to the CMR+ and CMR-W variants respectively.
A short description of the supported CMR v2.0 messages can be found in appendix D.

Example
To only accept CMR0 from the base station 12, use the following sequence:
COM1> sc2u, CMR0 <CR>
$R: sc2u, CMR0 CMRv2Usage, CMR0
COM1> sdcu, , , manual, 12 <CR>
$R: sdcu, , , manual, 12
DiffCorrUsage, LowLatency, 3600.0, manual, 12 ...
COM1>


3.2.20 Internal Disk Logging

sdfa
gdfasetDiskFullAction
getDiskFullActionDisk
DiskAction+ DSK1
allDeleteOldest StopLoggingRxControl: Logging > Internal Logging Settings > Global Logging Options


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire what the receiver should do when the disk identi?ed by Disk is full.
The currently supported actions are as follows:

ActionDescriptionDeleteOldestThe oldest ?le on the disk is automatically removed, unless the oldest ?le is also the current logging ?le. In that latter case, the logging stops. In incremental ?le naming mode, if the auto- incremented ?le name already exists, the existing ?le is over- written.StopLoggingAll logging activity stops on the speci?ed disk.
Examples
COM1> sdfa, DSK1, StopLogging <CR>
$R: sdfa, DSK1, StopLogging DiskFullAction, DSK1, StopLogging
COM1>

COM1> gdfa <CR>
$R: gdfa
  DiskFullAction, DSK1, StopLogging COM1>



ldilstDiskInfoDiskDirectory (60)DSK1
all
Use this command to retrieve information about the disk identi?ed by the Disk argument. The reply to this command contains the disk size and free space in bytes and the list of all recorded ?les and directories.
The content of directories is not shown by default. To list the content of a directory, use the second argument to specify the directory name.

Example
COM1> ldi, DSK1 <CR>
$R; ldi, dsk1
---->
$-- BLOCK 1 / 0
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1" ?>
<DiskInfo version="0.1"gt;
<Disk name="DSK1" total="2030927872" free="2030764032" >
<File name="log.sbf" size="16384" />
<File name="leuv2050.07_" size="35196" />
</Disk>
</DiskInfo> COM1>



sfn
gfnsetFileNaming
getFileNamingCd
CdNamingTypeFileName (20)+ DSK1FileNamelogallIncrementalIGS15MIGS1HIGS6HIGS24H
RxControl: Logging > Internal Logging Settings > SBF Logging and Upload


Use these commands to de?ne/inquire the ?le naming convention for the internal SBF, NMEA or user-message log ?les.
If NamingType is FileName, the ?le name is given by the third argument FileName, followed by the extension .sbf, .nma or .ecm for SBF, NMEA and user-message ?les respectively. User-message ?les contain messages entered by the command exeEchoMessage pre?xed with the GPS week number and time of week in seconds.
If NamingType is Incremental, the ?le name is given by the ?rst ?ve characters of the File- Name argument (right padded with "_" if necessary), followed by a modulo-1000 counter in- crementing each time logging is stopped and restarted. The ?le name extension is .sbf,
.nma or .ecm as described above. If the auto-incremented ?le name already exists on the disk, the receiver takes action as speci?ed by the setDiskFullAction command.
The set of allowed characters for the FileName argument is:

_0123456789ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz

If NamingType is IGS15M, IGS1H, IGS6H or IGS24H, the receiver automatically creates a new ?le every 15 minutes, every hour, every 6 hours or every 24 hours respectively, and the ?le name adheres to the IGS/RINEX2.11 naming convention.
The 4-character station identi?er is the ?rst four letters of the station code as set by the setMarkerParameters command. If the station code is empty, the ?rst four letters of the marker name are used.
If desired, it is also possible to add a log session ID pre?x to all ?le names logged in IGS naming mode. This is enabled with the setGlobalFileNamingOptions command.
In IGS naming mode, the ?les are put in daily directories, the directory name being of the form yyddd with yy the 2-digit year and ddd the day of year. If NamingType is FileName or Incremental, the ?le is put in the root directory.
Note that the actual ?le name on the disk is case insensitive and only contains lower-case characters even if the user entered upper-case characters in the FileName argument.
If the naming convention is changed while logging is ongoing, the current ?le is closed and the logging continues in a new ?le with the name as speci?ed.

Example
To have a ?xed ?le name "mytest.sbf", use:
COM1> sfn, DSK1, FileName, mytest <CR>
$R: sfn, DSK1, FileName, mytest



  FileNaming, DSK1, FileName, "mytest" COM1>



sfno
gfnosetGlobalFileNamingOptions
getGlobalFileNamingOptionsBusyTagoff on
RxControl: Logging > Internal Logging Settings > Global Logging Options


By default, ?les names follow the convention described with the logging commands (setFileNaming, setRINEXLogging).
By setting the BusyTag argument to on, a ".A" su?x is added to all ?les that are currently written to for easy identi?cation. The su?x is removed when the ?le is closed.

Example
COM1> sfno, on<CR>
$R: sfno, on GlobalFileNamingOptions, on
COM1>



emd
gmdexeManageDisk
getManageDiskDiskActionDSK1Unmount Mount Format
RxControl: Logging > Disk(s) > Disk Management


Use this command to manage the disk identi?ed by the Disk argument. Specify the action Format to format the disk (all data will be lost).
The Mount and Unmount actions mount and unmount the disk respectively. Unmounting an
internal disk makes it available as a mass-storage device when the USB cable is connected to a PC, i.e. it makes the disk appear as a drive on most ?le browsers. When the disk is mounted, it cannot be accessed as a mass-storage device. Internal logging is only possible when the disk is mounted. See the setUMSDOnConnect command to automatically unmount the disk upon connecting the USB cable.
Prior to formatting or unmounting the disk, make sure to stop all disk activities. If the speci- ?ed action could not be performed, an error message is returned.

Example
To format the ?rst disk (DSK1), use:
COM1> emd, DSK1, Format <CR>
$R: emd, DSK1, Format ManageDisk, DSK1, Format COM1>



lrflstRecordedFileDiskFileName (60)DSK1
Use this command to retrieve the contents of one of the log ?les on the disk identi?ed with the Disk argument.
The reply to this command consists in a succession of blocks starting with the "$-- BLOCK" header, and terminating with the pseudo-prompt "---->" (see section Section 3.1.3, "Com- mand Replies" for details). The decoding program must remove these headers and pseudo- prompts to recover the original ?le contents.
The download speed is highly in?uenced by the processor load. To speed up the download, it is recommended to stop the signal tracking, which can be done by typing the following command before starting the download: setSatelliteTracking, none.
The ?le download can be interrupted by sending ten uppercase "S" characters (simply by holding the "shift-S" key pressed) to the connection through which the download is taking place.

Examples
To output the contents of the internal log ?le named log.sbf on the ?rst disk (DSK1), use:
COM1> lrf, DSK1, log.sbf <CR>
$R; lrf, DSK1, log.sbf
... Here comes the content of log.sbf ... COM1>

If the ?le log.sbf does not exist, an error is returned:
COM1> lrf, DSK1, log.sbf <CR>
$R? lstRecordedFile: Argument 'FileName' could not be handled! COM1>



erf
grfexeRemoveFile
getRemoveFileDiskFileName (200)DSK1none all
RxControl: Logging > Remove Internal File


Use this command to remove one ?le or an entire directory from the disk identi?ed by the
Disk argument.
If FileName is the name of a ?le, only that single ?le is removed from the disk. Files in a directory can be speci?ed using dirname/?lename.
If FileName is the name of a directory, the entire directory is deleted, except the ?le currently written to, if any.
If the reserved string all is used for the FileName argument, all ?les are removed from the selected disk, except the ?le currently written to, if any.
If there is no ?le nor directory named FileName on the disk or if the ?le is currently written to, an error message is returned.

Examples
To remove the ?le "ATRX2980.03_" from directory "03298", use:
COM1> erf, DSK1, 03298/ATRX2980.03_ <CR>
$R: erf, DSK1, 03298/ATRX2980.03_ RemoveFile, DSK1, "03298/ATRX2980.03_"
COM1>

To remove all ?les from DSK1, use:
COM1> erf, DSK1, all <CR>
$R: erf, DSK1, all RemoveFile, DSK1, all
COM1>



srxl
grxlsetRINEXLogging
getRINEXLoggingCd
CdFileDurationObsIntervalSignalTypesExtraObsTypesRINEXVersionMixedNav+ DSK1nonesec1nonenonev211offallhour1sec2+ GPSL1CA+ Dxv304ShortNameonhour6sec5+ GPSL2PY+ Sxhour24sec10+ GPSL2C+ Channelminute15sec15+ GLOL1CAallsec30+ GLOL2CAsec60+ GALL1BC+ GALE5b+ GEOL1+ BDSB1I+ BDSB2I+ BDSB3I+ QZSL1CA+ QZSL2C+ QZSL1CBall
RxControl: Logging > Internal RINEX Logging > RINEX Logging Options


Use this command to con?gure RINEX ?le logging on the disk identi?ed with the Cd argument.
The argument FileDuration speci?es whether a new RINEX ?le should be started every 15 minutes, every hour, 6 hours or every day. When FileDuration is set to none, RINEX logging is disabled and all following arguments are ignored.
ObsInterval speci?es the interval of the observation records.
SignalTypes sets the list of signals to encode in the RINEX observation ?les. The more signals are selected, the bigger the RINEX ?les.
By default, the RINEX ?les contain the code and carrier phase observables. The ExtraObsTypes argument allows to also include the Doppler (obs code Dx), the C/N0 (obs code Sx), or the channel number (obs code X).
The argument RinexVersion selects which RINEX version to use. v304ShortName generates a v3.04 ?le, but still using the DOS ?le naming convention of v2.xx.
The argument MixedNav speci?es whether the navigation data is stored in separate ?les for each constellation (MixedNav set to off), or in a single mixed ?le (MixedNav set to on). This argument is ignored if RINEXVersion is v211. Note that QZSS and BeiDou navigation data are only available in the mixed navigation ?le.
In the RINEX ?le names, the 4-character station identi?er is the ?rst four letters of the station code as set by the setMarkerParameters command. If the station code is empty, the ?rst four letters of the marker name are used instead.
If desired, it is also possible to add a log session ID pre?x to all RINEX ?le names. This is enabled with the setGlobalFileNamingOptions command.
RINEX ?les are put in daily directories, the directory name being of the form yyddd with yy
the 2-digit year and ddd the day of year.
If a RINEX ?le is currently being logged when issuing this command, the new settings will only be applied when the next RINEX ?le will be started. This occurs at a rate speci?ed by FileDuration. To force the new settings to be immediately applied, RINEX logging must be temporarily stopped (FileDuration set to none) and then re-enabled. Changing the RINEX


settings (e.g. changing the list of signals to be stored in RINEX) results in the past data to be overwritten in the RINEX ?le.

Example
To create daily RINEX ?les with the observation ?le containing only GPS L1CA data at a 30-s interval, use:
COM1> srxl, DSK1, hour24, sec30, GPSL1CA <CR>
$R: srxl, DSK1, hour24, sec30, GPSL1CA
  RINEXLogging, DSK1, hour24, sec30, GPSL1CA, none, v304, on COM1>



suoc
guocsetUMSDOnConnect
getUMSDOnConnectModeoff on
RxControl: Logging > Disk(s) > Disk Access over USB


Use this command to enable or disable automatic activation of the USB mass-storage device (UMSD) upon connecting the USB port to a computer.
When the receiver is attached to your computer through an USB cable, the internal disk (DSK1) can be accessed using a standard ?le browser, where it appears as a removable drive or USB mass-storage device. This requires the disk to be unmounted by the receiver so that it can be accessed by your computer's operating system. Unmounting the disk can be done manually with the exeManageDisk command, or can be done automatically by the receiver each time the USB cable is attached to your computer.
When the Mode argument is on, each time the USB cable is connected, the receiver stops logging data and unmounts the internal disk. The disk becomes visible in your ?le browser. When the USB cable is disconnected, the internal disk is automatically remounted and logging resumes.
When Mode is off, activation of the USB mass-storage device is not done automatically and requires manually unmounting the internal disk with the exeManageDisk command.

Example
COM1> suoc, off<CR>
$R: suoc, off UMSDOnConnect, off
COM1>


3.2.21 FTP Push of Log Files

sfpr
gfprsetFTPPushRINEX
getFTPPushRINEXServer (32)Path (64)User (12)Password (24/2)
(8)anonymousRxControl: Logging > Internal RINEX Logging > RINEX FTP Push Options


Use this command to automatically send the onboard RINEX ?les to a remote FTP server (FTP Push). The arguments specify the FTP server hostname or IP address, the path to the remote directory where to put the RINEX ?les, and the login and password to use. Note that the receiver encrypts the password so that it cannot be read back with the command getFTPPushRINEX.
The RINEX ?les are FTPed when they are complete, as prescribed by the FileDuration settings in the setRINEXLogging command. The current ?les are also FTPed when the user disables RINEX logging.
The ?les are put in the remote directory speci?ed in the Path argument. Special character sequences can be used to encode the ?le date in the path: %y is replaced with the 2-digit year, %Y with the 4-digit year, %m with the month, %d with the day of the month, and %j with the day of the year (starting with 001). To put a literal "%" in the path, use %%. After expansion, Path must not be longer than 80 characters.
If the directory speci?ed in the Path argument does not exist on the remote server, it is cre- ated.
If the transfer or the directory creation fails, an error is ?agged (enter the command
lstInternalFile, Error to see the errors and clear the error ?ag).

Example
COM1> sfpr, ftp.mydomain.com, mydata/%Y%m%d, myname, mypwd <CR>
$R: sfpr, ftp.mydomain.com, mydata/%Y%m%d, myname, mypwd FTPPushRINEX, "ftp.mydomain.com", "mydata/%Y%m%d", "myname", "7UU5CL7W1C75DWXX2TEXD3W"
COM1>



sfps
gfpssetFTPPushSBF
getFTPPushSBFServer (32)Path (64)User (12)Password (24/2)
(9)anonymous
RxControl: Logging > Internal Logging Settings > SBF Logging and Upload


Use this command to automatically send the onboard SBF ?les to a remote FTP server (FTP push). The arguments specify the FTP server hostname or IP address, the path to the remote directory where to put the SBF ?les, and the login and password to use. Note that the receiver encrypts the password so that it cannot be read back with the command getFTPPushSBF.
FTP push is only available in IGS ?le naming mode (see the setFileNaming command). Each time an SBF ?le is ready, it is FTPed to the speci?ed server. For example, in IGS1H ?le naming mode, ?les are FTPed every hour. The current log ?le is also FTPed when the user disables internal logging.
The ?les are put in the remote directory speci?ed in the Path argument. Special character sequences can be used to encode the ?le date in the path: %y is replaced with the 2-digit year, %Y with the 4-digit year, %m with the month, %d with the day of the month, and %j with the day of the year (starting with 001). To put a literal "%" in the path, use %%. After expansion, Path must not be longer than 80 characters.
If the directory speci?ed in the Path argument does not exist on the remote server, it is cre- ated.
If the transfer or the directory creation fails, an error is ?agged (enter the command
lstInternalFile, Error to see the errors and clear the error ?ag).

Example
COM1> sfps, ftp.mydomain.com, mydata/%Y%m%d, myname, mypwd <CR>
$R: sfps, ftp.mydomain.com, mydata/%Y%m%d, myname, mypwd FTPPushSBF, "ftp.mydomain.com", "mydata/%Y%m%d", "myname", "7UU5CL7W1C75DWXX2TEXD3W"
COM1>



efpt
gfptexeFTPPushTest
getFTPPushTestServer (40)Path (64)User (20)Password (40/2)
(10)anonymous
RxControl: Logging > Test FTP Push to Server


Use this command to test write access to a FTP server.

The arguments specify the FTP server hostname or IP address, the path to the remote di- rectory where write access will be tested, and the login and password to use. The Path may contain variable ?elds as explained in the setSBFFTP command.
Upon receiving this command, the receiver tries to connect to the speci?ed FTP server and to write a short ?le in the directory speci?ed with the Path argument. The ?le is then deleted from the FTP server.
The process can take several minutes depending on the network latency.  At the end, a report message is posted in the activity log. This message can be retrieved with the lstInternalFile, RxMessages, and is also available in the RxMessage SBF block.

Example
COM1> efpt, myftp.com, mydata/%Y%m%d, myname, mypwd<CR>
$R: efpt, myftp.com, mydata/%Y%m%d, myname, mypwd FTPPushTest, myftp.com, mydata/%Y%m%d, myname, mypwd
COM1>









Chapter 4

SBF Reference


4.1 SBF Outline
SBF is the binary output format of Septentrio receivers. In this format, the data are arranged in binary blocks referred to as SBF blocks.
Each SBF block consists of a sequence of numeric or alphanumeric ?elds of different types and sizes. The total block size is always a multiple of 4 bytes.
The ?elds of an SBF block may have one of the following types:

Type Descriptionu1Unsigned integer on 1 byte (8 bits)u2Unsigned integer on 2 bytes (16 bits)u4Unsigned integer on 4 bytes (32 bits)u8Unsigned integer on 8 bytes (64 bits)i1Signed integer on 1 byte (8 bits)i2Signed integer on 2 bytes (16 bits)i4Signed integer on 4 bytes (32 bits)i8Signed integer on 8 bytes (64 bits)f4IEEE ?oat on 4 bytes (32 bits)f8IEEE ?oat on 8 bytes (64 bits)c1[X]String of X ASCII characters, right padded with bytes set to 0 if needed.Each multi-byte binary type is transmitted as little-endian, meaning that the least signi?cant byte is the ?rst one to be transmitted by the receiver. Signed integers are coded as two's complement.
Every SBF block begins with an 8-byte block header, which is followed by the block body.


4.1.1 SBF Block Header Format
Every SBF block starts with an 8-byte header having the following contents:

Parameter TypeDescriptionSyncc1[2]The Sync ?eld is a 2-byte array always set to 0x24, 0x40. The ?rst byte of every SBF block has hexadecimal value 24 (decimal 36, ASCII '$'). The second byte of every SBF block has hexadecimal value 40 (decimal 64, ASCII '@'). These two bytes identify the beginning of any SBF block and can be used for synchronization.CRCu2The CRC ?eld is the 16-bit CRC of all the bytes in an SBF block from and including the ID ?eld to the last byte of the block. The generator polynomial for this CRC is the so-called CRC-CCITT polynomial: x 16 + x 12 + x 5 + x 0. The CRC is computed in the forward direction using a seed of 0, no reverse and no ?nal XOR.IDu2The ID ?eld is a 2-byte block ID, which uniquely identi?es the block type and its contents. It is a bit ?eld with the following de?nition:
bits 0-12: block number;
bits 13-15: block revision number, starting from 0 at the initial block de?nition, and incrementing each time backwards-compatible changes are performed to the block (see section 4.1.6).Lengthu2The Length ?eld is a 2-byte unsigned integer containing the size of the SBF block. It is the total number of bytes in the SBF block including the header. It is always a multiple of 4.
4.1.2 SBF Block Names and Numbers
The structure and contents of an SBF block are unambiguously identi?ed by the block ID. For easier readability, a block name is also de?ned for each block. When invoking the setSBFOutput command to enable a given block, the block name should be speci?ed.


The list of SBF blocks available on your receiver can be found in Appendix B.


4.1.3 SBF Block Time Stamp (TOW and WNc)
Each SBF header is directly followed by a time stamp, which consists of two ?elds: TOW and
WNc:

Parameter Type Units & Scale Do-Not-Use	Description
Factor	ValueTOWu40.001 s4294967295Time-Of-Week : Time-tag, expressed in whole milliseconds from the beginning of the current GPS week.WNcu21 week65535The GPS week number associated with the TOW. WNc is a continuous week count (hence the "c"). It is not affected by GPS week rollovers, which occur every 1024 weeks.
By de?nition of the Galileo system time, WNc is also the Galileo week number plus 1024.In the SBF time stamps, the de?nition of the week always follows the GPS convention even if the block contains data for another constellation. This means that WNc 0, TOW 0 corresponds to Jan 06,1980 at 00:00:00 UTC.
If the time-of-week or the week number is unknown, which is typically the case for a few sec- onds after start-up, the corresponding ?eld is set to its Do-Not-Use value (see section 4.1.7). It does not mean that the SBF block is unusable, but simply that the receiver could not time-tag it. It is typical that the TOW ?eld becomes valid before the WNc ?eld.
The interpretation to give to the time stamp is block-dependent. Three types of time stamps are possible:
• Receiver time stamp: this type of time stamp is used for the SBF blocks containing synchronous data, i.e. data generated at a given epoch in the receiver time scale. Examples of such blocks are the measurement and PVT blocks ( MeasEpoch and PVTCartesian). The time stamp is always a multiple of the output interval as speci?ed by the setSBFOutput command (see also section 4.1.8). As soon as the receiver time is aligned with the GNSS time, the receiver time stamp is guaranteed to never decrease in successive SBF blocks.
• SIS time stamp: it is used for asynchronous blocks containing navigation message data from the signal-in-space. The time stamp corresponds to the time of transmission of the end of the last navigation bit used to build the SBF block. It always follows the GPS convention, as explained above.
• External time stamp: this type of time stamp is used for SBF blocks triggered by external asynchronous events, such as the ExtEvent block.
For the blocks with a SIS or an external time stamp, there is no strict relation between the time stamp of the SBF blocks and their order of transmission. For example, the SBF stream may contain a GPSNav block with ephemeris parameters received one hour in the past (i.e. the time stamp is one hour in the past) followed by another block with a current receiver time stamp.

4.1.4 Sub-blocks
Some blocks contain sub-blocks. For example, the SatVisibility block contains N SatInfo sub-blocks, each sub-block containing data for one particular satellite. Unless the


size of the sub-blocks is mentioned explicitly in the block description, SBF blocks that contain sub-blocks also contain a SBLength ?eld, which indicates the size of the sub-blocks in bytes.

4.1.5 Padding Bytes
Padding bytes are foreseen at the end of most SBF blocks and sub-blocks, so that their total size is equal to Length or SBLength respectively. The padding bytes are just placeholders and should not be looked at by the decoding software. Their value is not de?ned.

4.1.6 SBF Revision Number
Each SBF block has an associated revision number. The revision number is incremented each time a backwards-compatible change is implemented.
As described in section 4.1.1, the block number is to be found in bits 0 to 12 of the ID ?eld, and the revision is in bits 13 to 15 of that ?eld.
A backwards-compatible change consists of adding one or more ?elds in the padding bytes, or in the ?elds marked as "reserved" in the block description. Such change should be unno- ticed by properly written decoding software that ignore the contents of padding and reserved ?elds (see also section 4.1.12). Each time such change happens, the revision number is in- cremented. The revision at which a given ?eld has been introduced is documented in the block description in chapter 4.2, unless that revision is 0 (see the ReceiverSetup block as an example). It is guaranteed that if a given ?eld exists in revision N, it will also exist in all revisions after N: no ?elds are withdrawn from SBF.

4.1.7 Do-Not-Use Value
It might happen that one or more pieces of data in an SBF block are not known at block cre- ation time. For example, when there are insu?cient satellite measurements to compute a po- sition solution, the position components found in the X, Y and Z ?elds of the PVTCartesian block will not be available. To indicate that a given data item is not available or is currently not provided by the receiver, the corresponding ?eld is set to a 'Do-Not-Use' value that is never reached in normal operation.
When applicable, the Do-Not-Use value is mentioned in the block description. The Do-Not- Use value refers to the raw contents of the ?eld, without applying the scale factor. A ?eld set to its Do-Not-Use value should always be discarded by the decoding software.

4.1.8 Output Rate
In general, the default output rate for each SBF block is the renewal rate of the information. For instance, the GPSNav block is output each time a new ephemeris data set is received from a given GPS satellite. The default output rates of GNSS measurement blocks, PVT blocks and integrated INS/GNSS blocks depend on your permission set. These three rates can be checked by the command getReceiverCapabilities.


The default output rate is speci?ed for each block in chapter 4.2. To instruct the receiver to output a given block at its default rate, the "OnChange" rate has to be speci?ed in the setSBFOutput command.
Some blocks can only be output at their default rate (e.g. the GPSNav block). Others can be decimated to a user-selectable rate. A subset of blocks can also be output "once" using the exeSBFOnce command. This can be handy to get a one-shot overview of a particular receiver state. Whether a given block supports a user-selectable rate ("Flex Rate") and whether it belongs to the "output once" set is indicated in the SBF block list in Appendix B.
Attempting to force another rate than the default one for those blocks that do not support "Flex Rate" has no effect: those blocks are always output at their default rate.

4.1.9 Satellite ID and GLONASS Frequency Num- ber
     Satellites are identi?ed by the SVID (or PRN) and FreqNr ?elds, de?ned as in the table below.
 This table is only valid for the currently-supported constellations and signal types (see 4.1.10). To ensure compatibility with future SBF upgrades, decoding software must ignore SBF blocks and sub-blocks of which the satellite ID ?eld or the signal number ?eld is unde?ned in this document.

FieldType Do-Not-Use
ValueDescriptionRINEX satellite codeSVID or PRNu10Satellite ID: The following ranges are de?ned:
1-37:	PRN number of a GPS satellite
38-61:	Slot number of a GLONASS satellite with an offset of 37 (R01 to R24)
62:	GLONASS satellite of which the slot number is not known
63-68:	Slot number of a GLONASS satellite with an offset of 38 (R25 to R30)
71-106: PRN number of a GALILEO satellite with an offset of 70
107-119: L-Band (MSS) satellite. Corresponding satellite name can be found in the LBandBeams block.
120-140: PRN number of an SBAS satellite (S120 to S140)
141-180: PRN number of a BeiDou satellite with an offset of 140 181-187: PRN number of a QZSS satellite with an offset of 180
191-197: PRN number of a NavIC/IRNSS satellite with an offset of 190 (I01 to I07)
198-215: PRN number of an SBAS satellite with an offset of 57 (S141 to S158)
216-222: PRN number of a NavIC/IRNSS satellite with an offset of 208 (I08 to I14)
223-245: PRN number of a BeiDou satellite with an offset of 182 (C41 to C63)Gnn (nn = SVID)Rnn (nn = SVID-37)NARnn (nn = SVID-38)Enn (nn = SVID-70)NASnn (nn = SVID-100)Cnn (nn = SVID-140)Jnn (nn = SVID-180)Inn (nn = SVID-190)Snn (nn = SVID-157)Inn (nn = SVID-208)Cnn (nn = SVID-182)FreqNru10GLONASS frequency number, with an offset of 8. It ranges from 1 (corresponding to an actual frequency number of
-7) to 21 (corresponding to an actual frequency number of 13).

For non-GLONASS satellites, FreqNr is reserved and must be ignored by the decoding software.

4.1.10 Signal Type
Some sub-blocks contain a signal type ?eld, which identi?es the type of signal and modulation the sub-blocks applies to. The signal numbering is de?ned as follows:

Signal
numberSignal TypeConstellationCarrier frequency (MHz)RINEX
obs code0L1CAGPS1575.421C1L1PGPS1575.421W2L2PGPS1227.602W3L2CGPS1227.602L4L5GPS1176.455Q5L1CGPS1575.421L6L1CAQZSS1575.421C7L2CQZSS1227.602L8L1CAGLONASS1602.00+(FreqNr-8)*9/16, with FreqNr as de?ned in section 4.1.9.1C9L1PGLONASS1602.00+(FreqNr-8)*9/161P10L2PGLONASS1246.00+(FreqNr-8)*7/162P11L2CAGLONASS1246.00+(FreqNr-8)*7/162C12L3GLONASS1202.0253Q13B1CBeiDou1575.421P14B2aBeiDou1176.455P15L5NavIC/IRNSS1176.455A16Reserved17E1Galileo1575.421C18Reserved19E6Galileo1278.756C or 6B (*)20E5aGalileo1176.455Q21E5bGalileo1207.147Q22E5 AltBOCGalileo1191.7958Q23LBandMSSL-band beam speci?cNA24L1CASBAS1575.421C25L5SBAS1176.455I26L5QZSS1176.455Q27L6QZSS1278.7528B1IBeiDou1561.0982I29B2IBeiDou1207.147I30B3IBeiDou1268.526I31Reserved32L1CQZSS1575.421L33L1SQZSS1575.421Z34B2bBeiDou1207.147D35-37Reserved38 (Tentative!)L1CBQZSS1575.421E39L5SQZSS1176.455P(*) See the E6B Used bit in the MeasEpoch SBF block.

4.1.11 Channel Numbering
Some blocks contain a reference to the receiver channel number. Channel numbering starts at one. The maximum value for the channel number depends on the receiver type.


4.1.12 Decoding of SBF Blocks
In order to decode an SBF block, one has to identify the block boundaries in the data stream coming from the receiver. This involves searching for the initial "$@" characters that mark the beginning of each SBF block. Since the "$@" sequence can occur in the middle of an SBF block as well, additional checking is needed to make sure that a given "$@" is indeed the beginning of a block. The following procedure is recommended to decode SBF data stream.
1. Wait until the "$@" character sequence appears in the data stream from the receiver. When it is found, go to point 2.
2. Read the next two bytes. It should be the block CRC. Store this value for future refer- ence.
3. Read the next two bytes and store them in a buffer. It should be the block ID.
4. Read the next two bytes and append them to the buffer. It should be the Length ?eld of the SBF block. It should be a multiple of 4. If not, go back to point 1.
5. Read the next (Length-8) bytes and append them to the buffer. Compute the CRC of the buffer. The computed CRC should be equal to the CRC stored at point 2. If not, go back to point 1, else a valid SBF block has been detected and can be interpreted by the reading software.
6. If the block number (bits 0 to 12 of the ID ?eld decoded at point 3) is of interest to your application, decode the SBF block.
7. Go back to point 1 and search for the new occurrence of the "$@" sequence after the end of the last byte of the block that was just identi?ed.
To ensure compatibility with future upgrades of SBF, it is recommended that the decoding software observes the following rules:
• Only bits 0 to 12 of the ID ?eld must be used to identify a block. Bits 13 to 15 represent the revision number.
• The lengths of SBF blocks and sub-blocks should not be considered constant and hard- coded in the decoding software. Instead, the decoding software must use the Length and SBLength ?elds encoded in the SBF block.
• Padding bytes should be ignored.
• Reserved ?elds and reserved bits in bit-?elds should be ignored.
• SBF blocks or sub-blocks of which the satellite ID ?eld or the signal number ?eld is unde?ned in this document should be ignored (see section 4.1.9).


4.2 SBF Block Definitions
4.2.1 Measurement Blocks
GNSS observables are available in the following SBF blocks:

• the legacy MeasEpoch block, possibly complemented by MeasExtra.
• the	Meas3Ranges block,	possibly	complemented	by	Meas3Doppler and
Meas3CN0HiRes.
The MeasEpoch block contains pseudorange, carrier phase, C/N0 and Doppler observables. The Meas3Ranges block contains pseudoranges, carrier phases and C/N0, while Doppler is available in the companion Meas3Doppler block. The observable resolution is shown in the table below.


MeasEpochMeas3RangesPseudorange1mm1mmCarrier phase0.001cycles0.001cyclesC/N00.25dB-Hz
0.03125dB-Hz with MeasExtra1dB-Hz
0.0625dB-Hz with Meas3CN0HiResDoppler0.0001HzNo Doppler in Meas3Ranges 1mm/s with Meas3Doppler
The main advantage of the Meas3 blocks is their reduced size compared to the MeasEpoch blocks. As an illustration, the following table shows the disk space required to log the different measurement-related blocks over one day at a 1-s interval. In this example, measurements from all GPS L1/L2/L5, GLONASS L1/L2, Galileo E1/E6/E5a/E5b and BeiDou B1/B2/B3 signals have been logged (constellation status as of beginning of 2017).


SBF Block	Disk space (1 day, 1 Hz)
MeasEpoch	104MB
MeasExtra	110MB Meas3Ranges	28MB Meas3Doppler 10MB Meas3CN0HiRes 5MB





This block contains all the GNSS measurements (observables) taken at the time given by the
TOW and WNc ?elds.

For each tracked signal, the following measurement set is available:

• the pseudorange
• the carrier phase
• the Doppler
• the C/N0
• the lock-time.

To decrease the block size, all the measurements from a given satellite are referenced to one master measurement set. For instance, the L2 pseudorange (C2) is not much different from the L1 pseudorange (C1), such that the difference between C2 and C1 is encoded, instead of the absolute value of C2.

This is done by using a two-level sub-block structure. All the measurements from a given satellite are stored in a MeasEpochChannelType1 sub-block. The ?rst part of this sub-block contains the master measurements, encoded as absolute values. The second part contains slave measurements, for which only the delta values are encoded in smaller MeasEpochChannelType2 sub-blocks.

Every MeasEpochChannelType1 sub-block contains a ?eld "N2", which gives the number of nested MeasEpochChannelType2 sub-blocks. If there is only one signal tracked for a given satellite, there are no slave measurements and N2 is set to 0.

Decoding is done as follows:

1. Decode	the	master	measurements	and	the	N2  value	from	the
MeasEpochChannelType1 sub-block.
2. If N2 is not 0, decode the N2 nested MeasEpochChannelType2 sub-blocks.
3. Go back to 1 till the N1 MeasEpochChannelType1 sub-blocks have been decoded.
 Note that measurements in this block are scrambled if the "Measurement Availability" per- mission is not granted on your receiver. See also bit 7 of the CommonFlags ?eld.





































Rev 1


MeasEpochChannelType1 sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionRxChannelu1Receiver channel on which this satellite is currently tracked (see 4.1.11).Typeu1Bit ?eld indicating the signal type and antenna ID:
Bits 0-4: SigIdxLo: if not 31, this is the signal number (see 4.1.10), otherwise the signal number can be found in the ObsInfo ?eld below.
Bits 5-7: Antenna ID: 0 for main, 1 for Aux1 and 2 for Aux2SVIDu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9Miscu1
4294967.296 m
0 (1)Bit ?eld containing the MSB of the pseudorange.
Bits 0-3: CodeMSB: MSB of the pseudorange (this is an unsigned value).
Bits 4-7: ReservedCodeLSBu40.001 m0 (1)LSB of the pseudorange. The pseudorange expressed in meters is computed as follows:
PRtype1[m] = (CodeMSB*4294967296+CodeLSB)*0.001
where CodeMSB is part of the Misc ?eld.Doppleri40.0001 Hz-2147483648Carrier Doppler (positive for approaching satellites). To compute the Doppler in Hz, use:
Dtype1[Hz] = Doppler*0.0001CarrierLSBu20.001 cycles0 (2)LSB of the carrier phase relative to the pseudorangeCarrierMSBi165.536 cycles-128 (2)MSB of the carrier phase relative to the pseudorange. The full carrier phase can be computed by:
L[cycles] = PRtype1[m]/?
+(CarrierMSB*65536+CarrierLSB)*0.001

where ? is the carrier wavelength corresponding to the frequency of the signal type in the Type ?eld above: ?=299792458/fL m, with fL the carrier frequency as listed in section 4.1.10.CN0u10.25 dB-Hz255The C/N0 in dB-Hz is computed as follows, depending on the signal type in the Type ?eld:
C/N0[dB-Hz] = CN0*0.25 if the signal number is 1 or 2
C/N0[dB-Hz] = CN0*0.25+10 otherwise
Users requiring a higher C/N0 resolution can use the MeasExtra SBF block. The Misc ?eld of that block allows to extend the resolution to 0.03125dB-Hz.LockTimeu21 s65535Duration of continuous carrier phase. The lock-time is reset at the initial lock of the phase-locked-loop, and whenever a loss of lock condition occurs.

If the lock-time is longer than 65534s, it is clipped to 65534s.

If the carrier phase measurement is not available, this ?eld is set to its Do-Not-Use value.



ObsInfou1Bit ?eld:
Bit 0:	if set, the pseudorange measurement is smoothed Bit 1:	Reserved
Bit 2:	this bit is set when the carrier phase (L) has a half-cycle ambiguity
Bits 3-7: The interpretation of these bits depends on the value of SigIdxLo from the Type ?eld.
If SigIdxLo equals 31, these bits contain the signal number with an offset of 32 (see 4.1.10). For example, a value of 1 corresponds to signal number 33 (QZSS L1S).

If SigIdxLo is 8, 9, 10 or 11, these bits contain the GLONASS frequency number with an offset of 8. For example, a value of 1 corresponds to frequency number -7.

Otherwise, these bits are reserved.N2u1Number of MeasEpochChannelType2 sub-blocks contained in this MeasEpochChannelType1 sub-block.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5Type2......A succession of N2 MeasEpochChannelType2 sub-blocks, see de?nition below

MeasEpochChannelType2 sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionTypeu1Bit ?eld indicating the signal type and antenna ID:
Bits 0-4: SigIdxLo: if not 31, this is the signal number (see 4.1.10), otherwise the signal number can be found in the ObsInfo ?eld below.
Bits 5-7: Antenna ID: 0 for main, 1 for Aux1 and 2 for Aux2LockTimeu11 s255See corresponding ?eld in the MeasEpochChannelType1 sub- block above, except that the value is clipped to 254 instead of 65534.CN0u10.25 dB-Hz255See corresponding ?eld in the MeasEpochChannelType1 sub- block above.OffsetsMSBu1

65.536 m
6.5536 Hz

-4 (3)
-16 (4)Bit ?eld containing the MSB of the code and of the Doppler offsets with respect to the MeasEpochChannelType1 sub-block.
Bits 0-2: CodeOffsetMSB: MSB of the code offset.
Bits 3-7: DopplerOffsetMSB: MSB of the Doppler offset.
CodeOffsetMSB and DopplerOffsetMSB are coded as two's complement.
Refer to the CodeOffsetLSB and DopplerOffsetLSB ?elds to see how to use this ?eld.CarrierMSBi165.536 cycles-128 (5)MSB of the carrier phase relative to the pseudorange.ObsInfou1Bit ?eld:
Bit 0:  if set, the pseudorange measurement is smoothed Bit 1:  Reserved
Bit 2: this bit is set when the carrier phase (L) has a half-cycle ambiguity
Bits 3-7: If SigIdxLo from the Type ?eld of this sub-block equals 31, these bits contain the signal number with an offset of 32 (see 4.1.10), e.g. 1 corresponds to signal number 33 (QZSS L1S). Otherwise they are reserved and must be ignored by the decoding software.
(1)	The pseudorange is invalid if both CodeMSB is 0 and CodeLSB is 0.
(2)	The carrier phase is invalid if both CarrierMSB is -128 and CarrierLSB is 0.




CodeOffsetLSBu20.001 m0 (3)LSB of the code offset with respect to pseudorange in the MeasEpochChannelType1 sub-block. To compute the pseudo- range, use:
PRtype2 [m] = PRtype1[m]
+ (CodeOffsetMSB*65536+CodeOffsetLSB)*0.001CarrierLSBu20.001 cycles0 (5)LSB of the carrier phase relative to the pseudorange. The full carrier phase can be computed by:
L[cycles]= PRtype2[m]/?
+(CarrierMSB*65536+CarrierLSB)*0.001
where ? is the carrier wavelength corresponding to the signal type in the Type ?eld.DopplerOffsetLSBu20.0001 Hz0 (4)LSB of the Doppler offset relative to the Doppler in the MeasEpochChannelType1 sub-block. To compute the Doppler, use:
Dtype2[Hz] = Dtype1[Hz]*a
+(DopplerOffsetMSB*65536+DopplerOffsetLSB)
*1e-4,

where a is the ratio of the carrier frequency corresponding to the observable type in this MeasEpochChannelType2 sub- block, and that of the master observable type in the parent MeasEpochChannelType1 sub-block (see section 4.1.10 for a list of all carrier frequencies).Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5


































(3)	The pseudorange is invalid if both CodeOffsetMSB is -4 and CodeOffsetLSB is 0.
(4)	The Doppler is invalid if both DopplerOffsetMSB is -16 and DopplerOffsetLSB is 0.
(5)	The carrier phase is invalid if both CarrierMSB is -128 and CarrierLSB is 0.





This block contains extra information associated with the measurements contained in the MeasEpoch block, such as the internal corrections parameters applied during the measure- ment pre-processing, and the noise variances.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of sub-blocks in this MeasExtra block.SBLengthu11 byteLength of a sub-blockDopplerVarFactorf41 Hz2 / cycle2Factor to be used to compute the Doppler variance from the carrier phase variance. More speci?cally, the Doppler variance in mHz2 can be computed by:
s2	[mHz2] = CarrierVariance * DopplerVarFactor,
Doppler

Where CarrierVariance can be found for each measure- ment type in the MeasExtraChannelSub sub-blocks.ChannelSub......A succession of N MeasExtraChannelSub sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

MeasExtraChannelSub sub-block de?nition:


































Rev 1





Rev 2







Rev 3





This block contains all the code, carrier phase and C/N0 observables at a given measurement epoch. The resolution is 0.001m, 0.001cycles and 1dB-Hz for the code, carrier and C/N0 measurements respectively.

Applications requiring Doppler measurements can log the Meas3Doppler SBF block in addition to the Meas3Ranges block. Applications requiring extended C/N0 resolution (1/16dB-Hz) can log the Meas3CN0HiRes SBF block in addition to the Meas3Ranges block.

The advantage of this block compared to the MeasEpoch SBF block is its reduced size while offering the full resolution for the code and carrier measurements. One of the techniques used to reduce the size is to only encode full measurements (reference epochs) every N epochs. Between these reference epochs, Meas3Ranges contains delta epochs where the difference between the current measurements and the ones at the applicable reference epoch is encoded. The decoder must have received and stored the applicable reference epoch to be able to decode delta epochs. When streaming SBF over an unreliable communication link, if the reference epoch is lost, subsequent Meas3Ranges blocks cannot be decoded until the next reference epoch is received. The interval at which reference epochs are encoded can be controlled with the setMeas3MaxRefInterval command. A longer interval generally reduces the average block size, at the expense of a longer data gap in case a reference epoch is lost.

See also page 241 for additional information.

The format of this block and of the other Meas3 blocks is complex and is not pro- vided here.  Details can be obtained from Septentrio Support.  The RxTools instal- lation contains the complete source code of a decoder in C language, together with sbf2asc, a small application showing how to use it. All C ?les can be found under the sbf2asc folder in the RxTools installation. The main measurement decoding function is sbfread_MeasCollectAndDecode() in the sbfread_meas.c ?le. Users interested in decoding the Meas3 blocks are strongly advised to use the provided source code instead of writing their own decoder.
The detailed de?nition of this block is not available in this document.





The Meas3CN0HiRes block is an extension of the Meas3Ranges block containing the frac- tional part of the C/N0 values. The resolution of the C/N0 value in the Meas3Ranges SBF block is 1dB-Hz. Applications requiring a ?ner C/N0 resolution (0.0625dB-Hz) must log the Meas3CN0HiRes block together with the Meas3Ranges block.
The detailed de?nition of this block is not available in this document.





The Meas3Doppler block is an extension of the Meas3Ranges block containing the range- rate (Doppler) values. Applications requiring range-rate or Doppler observables must log the Meas3Doppler block together with the Meas3Ranges block.
The detailed de?nition of this block is not available in this document.





The Meas3PP block is an extension of the Meas3Ranges block containing various Septentrio- proprietary ?ags and values needed for accurate post-processing or re-processing of the PVT from the measurements in the Meas3Ranges SBF block. This block must be logged together with Meas3Ranges.
The detailed de?nition of this block is not available in this document.





The Meas3MP block is an extension of the Meas3Ranges block containing the multipath correction applied by the receiver. It can be used for research purposes to undo the receiver multipath mitigation and revert to unmitigated data. This block must be logged together with Meas3Ranges.
The detailed de?nition of this block is not available in this document.





This block marks the end of the transmission of all measurement-related blocks belonging to a given epoch.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.2 Navigation Page Blocks


This block contains the 300 bits of a GPS C/A subframe. It is generated each time a new subframe is received, i.e. every 6 seconds.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9CRCPassedu1Status of the CRC or parity check: 0:	CRC or parity check failed 1:	CRC or parity check passedViterbiCntu1Not applicableSourceu1Bit ?eld:
Bits 0-4:	Signal type from which the bits have been received, as de?ned in 4.1.10
Bits 5-7:	ReservedFreqNru1Not applicableRxChannelu1Receiver channel (see 4.1.11).NAVBitsu4[10]NAVBits contains the 300 bits of a GPS C/A subframe.

Encoding: For easier parsing, the bits are stored as a succession of 10 32-bit words. Since the actual words in the subframe are 30-bit long, two unused bits are inserted in each 32-bit word. More speci?cally, each 32-bit word has the following format:
Bits 0-5:	6 parity bits (referred to as D25 to D30 in the GPS ICD), XOR-ed with the last transmitted bit of the previous word (D* )).
30
Bits 6-29: source data bits (referred to as dn in the GPS ICD). The ?rst received bit is the MSB.
Bits 30-31: ReservedPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the 300 bits of a GPS L2C CNAV subframe (the so-called Dc(t ) data stream).

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9CRCPassedu1Status of the CRC or parity check: 0:	CRC or parity check failed 1:	CRC or parity check passedViterbiCntu1Viterbi decoder error count over the subframeSourceu1Bit ?eld:
Bits 0-4: Signal type from which the bits have been received, as de?ned in 4.1.10
Bits 5-7: ReservedFreqNru1Not applicableRxChannelu1Receiver channel (see 4.1.11).NAVBitsu4[10]NAVBits contains the 300 bits of a GPS CNAV subframe.

Encoding: NAVBits contains all the bits of the frame, including the preamble. The ?rst received bit is stored as the MSB of NAVBits[0]. The unused bits in NAVBits[9] must be ignored by the decoding software.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the 85 bits of a GLONASS L1CA or L2CA navigation string.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9CRCPassedu1Status of the CRC or parity check: 0:	CRC or parity check failed 1:	CRC or parity check passedViterbiCntu1Not applicableSourceu1Bit ?eld:
Bits 0-4: Signal type from which the bits have been received, as de?ned in 4.1.10
Bits 5-7: ReservedFreqNru1Frequency number, with an offset of 8. See 4.1.9RxChannelu1Receiver channel (see 4.1.11).NAVBitsu4[3]NAVBits contains the ?rst 85 bits of a GLONASS C/A string (i.e. all bits of the string with the exception of the time mark).

Encoding: The ?rst received bit is stored as the MSB of NAVBits[0]. The unused bits in NAVBits[2] must be ignored by the decoding software.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the 234 bits of a Galileo I/NAV navigation page, after deinterleaving and Viterbi decoding.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9CRCPassedu1Status of the CRC or parity check: 0:	CRC or parity check failed 1:	CRC or parity check passedViterbiCntu1Viterbi decoder error count over the pageSourceu1Bit ?eld:
Bits 0-4: Signal type from which the bits have been received, as de?ned in 4.1.10
Bit 5: Set when the nav page is the concatenation of a sub-page re- ceived from E5b, and a sub-page received from L1BC. In that case, bits 0-4 are set to L1BC.
Bit 6:  Reserved
Bit 7:  ReservedFreqNru1Not applicableRxChannelu1Receiver channel (see 4.1.11).NAVBitsu4[8]NAVBits contains the 234 bits of an I/NAV navigation page (in nominal or alert mode). Note that the I/NAV page is transmitted as two sub-pages (the so-called even and odd pages) of duration 1 second each (120 bits each). In this block, the even and odd pages are concatenated, even page ?rst and odd page last. The 6 tails bits at the end of the even page are removed (hence a total of 234 bits). If the even and odd pages have been received from two different carriers (E5b and L1), bit 5 of the Source ?eld is set.

Encoding: NAVBits contains all the bits of the frame, with the ex- ception of the synchronization ?eld. The ?rst received bit is stored as the MSB of NAVBits[0]. The unused bits in NAVBits[7] must be ignored by the decoding software.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the 250 bits of a SBAS L1 navigation frame, after Viterbi decoding.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9CRCPassedu1Status of the CRC or parity check: 0:	CRC or parity check failed 1:	CRC or parity check passedViterbiCntu1Viterbi decoder error count over the navigation frameSourceu1Bit ?eld:
Bits 0-4: Signal type from which the bits have been received, as de?ned in 4.1.10
Bits 5-7: ReservedFreqNru1Not applicableRxChannelu1Receiver channel (see 4.1.11).NAVBitsu4[8]NAVBits contains the 250 bits of a SBAS navigation frame.

Encoding: NAVBits contains all the bits of the frame, including the preamble. The ?rst received bit is stored as the MSB of NAVBits[0]. The unused bits in NAVBits[7] must be ignored by the decoding software.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the 300 bits of a BeiDou navigation page, as received from the B1I, B2I or B3I signal.



ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9CRCPassedu1Status of the CRC or parity check: 0:	CRC or parity check failed 1:	CRC or parity check passedViterbiCntu1Not applicableSourceu1Signal type from which the bits have been received, as de?ned in 4.1.10Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding software.RxChannelu1Receiver channel (see 4.1.11).NAVBitsu4[10]NAVBits contains the 300 deinterleaved bits of a BeiDou navigation subframe.

Encoding: NAVBits contains all the bits of the subframe, including the preamble and the parity bits. The ?rst received bit is stored as the MSB of NAVBits[0]. The 20 unused bits in NAVBits[9] must be ignored by the decoding software. The bits are deinterleaved.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the 300 bits of a QZSS L1C/A or L1C/B subframe.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9CRCPassedu1Status of the CRC or parity check: 0:	CRC or parity check failed 1:	CRC or parity check passedReservedu1ReservedSourceu1Signal type from which the bits have been received, as de?ned in 4.1.10Reserved2u1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding software.RxChannelu1Receiver channel (see 4.1.11).NAVBitsu4[10]NAVBits contains the 300 bits of a QZSS C/A subframe.

Encoding: Same as GPSRawCA block.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the 300 bits of a QZSS L2C CNAV subframe.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9CRCPassedu1Status of the CRC or parity check: 0:	CRC or parity check failed 1:	CRC or parity check passedViterbiCntu1Viterbi decoder error count over the subframeSourceu1Bit ?eld:
Bits 0-4: Signal type from which the bits have been received, as de?ned in 4.1.10
Bits 5-7: ReservedReservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding software.RxChannelu1Receiver channel (see 4.1.11).NAVBitsu4[10]NAVBits contains the 300 bits of a QZSS CNAV subframe.

Encoding: NAVBits contains all the bits of the frame, including the preamble. The ?rst received bit is stored as the MSB of NAVBits[0]. The unused bits in NAVBits[9] must be ignored by the decoding software.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.3 GPS Decoded Message Blocks


The GPSNav block contains the decoded navigation data for one GPS satellite. These data are conveyed in subframes 1 to 3 of the satellite navigation message. Refer to GPS ICD for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the GPS satellite of which the ephemeris is given in this block (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareWNu21 week65535Week number (10 bits from subframe 1, word 3)CAorPonL2u1Code(s) on L2 channel (2 bits from subframe 1, word 3)URAu1User Range accuracy index (4 bits from subframe 1 word 3)healthu16-bit health from subframe 1, word 3 (6 bits from subframe 1,
word 3)L2DataFlagu1Data ?ag for L2 P-code (1 bit from subframe 1, word 4)IODCu2Issue of data, clock (10 bits from subframe 1)IODE2u1Issue of data, ephemeris (8 bits from subframe 2)IODE3u1Issue of data, ephemeris (8 bits from subframe 3)FitIntFlgu1Curve Fit Interval, (1 bit from subframe 2, word 10)Reserved2u1unused, to be ignored by decoding softwareT_gdf41 sEstimated group delay differentialt_ocu41 sclock data reference timea_f2f41 s / s2SV clock aginga_f1f41 s / sSV clock drifta_f0f41 sSV clock biasC_rsf41 mAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the orbit ra- diusDEL_Nf41 semi-circle / sMean motion difference from computed valueM_0f81 semi-circleMean anomaly at reference timeC_ucf41 radAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the argu- ment of latitudeef8EccentricityC_usf41 radAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the argument of latitudeSQRT_Af81 m1/2Square root of the semi-major axist_oeu41 sReference time ephemerisC_icf41 radAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the angle of inclinationOMEGA_0f81 semi-circleLongitude of ascending node of orbit plane at weekly epochC_isf41 radAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the angle of inclination



i_0f81 semi-circleInclination angle at reference timeC_rcf41 mAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the orbit radiusomegaf81 semi-circleArgument of perigeeOMEGADOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of right ascensionIDOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of inclination angleWNt_ocu21 weekWN associated with t_oc, modulo 1024WNt_oeu21 weekWN associated with t_oe, modulo 1024Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The GPSAlm block contains the decoded almanac data for one GPS satellite. These data are conveyed in subframes 4 and 5 of the satellite navigation message. Refer to GPS ICD for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the GPS satellite of which the almanac is given in this block (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareef4Eccentricityt_oau41 salmanac reference time of weekdelta_if41 semi-circleInclination angle at reference time, relative to i0 = 0.3 semi-circlesOMEGADOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of right ascensionSQRT_Af41 m1/2Square root of the semi-major axisOMEGA_0f41 semi-circleLongitude of ascending node of orbit plane at weekly epochomegaf41 semi-circleArgument of perigeeM_0f41 semi-circleMean anomaly at reference timea_f1f41 s / sSV clock drifta_f0f41 sSV clock biasWN_au11 weekAlmanac reference week, to which t_oa is referencedconfigu1Anti-spoo?ng and satellite con?guration (4 bits from subframe 4, page 25)health8u1health on 8 bits from the almanac pagehealth6u1health summary on 6 bits (from subframe 4, page 25 and sub- frame 5 page 25)Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The GPSIon block contains the decoded ionosphere data (the Klobuchar coe?cients). These data are conveyed in subframes 4, page 18 of the satellite navigation message. Refer to GPS ICD for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the GPS satellite from which the coe?cients have been re- ceived (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwarealpha_0f41 svertical delay coe?cient 0alpha_1f41 s / semi-circlevertical delay coe?cient 1alpha_2f41 s / semi-circle2vertical delay coe?cient 2alpha_3f41 s / semi-circle3vertical delay coe?cient 3beta_0f41 smodel period coe?cient 0beta_1f41 s / semi-circlemodel period coe?cient 1beta_2f41 s / semi-circle2model period coe?cient 2beta_3f41 s / semi-circle3model period coe?cient 3Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The GPSUtc block contains the decoded UTC data. These data are conveyed in subframes 4, page 18 of the satellite navigation message. Refer to GPS ICD for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the GPS satellite from which these UTC parameters have been re- ceived (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareA_1f41 s / s?rst order term of polynomialA_0f81 sconstant term of polynomialt_otu41 sreference time for UTC dataWN_tu11 weekUTC reference week number, to which t_ot is referencedDEL_t_LSi11 sDelta time due to leap seconds whenever the effectivity time is not in the pastWN_LSFu11 weekEffectivity time of leap second (week)DNu11 dayEffectivity time of leap second (day, from 1 to 7)DEL_t_LSFi11 sDelta time due to leap seconds whenever the effectivity time is in the pastPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The GPSCNav block contains the decoded CNAV navigation data for one GPS satellite. The ephemeris and health parameters are extracted from message types (MT) 10 and 11. The clock correction and group delay correction parameters are extracted from MT30.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the GPS satellite of which the parameters are given in this block (see 4.1.9)Flagsu1Bit ?eld:
Bit 0: Alert: Set to 1 if at least one of the message types of which the contents is included in this block had its alert bit (bit 38) set to 1. Set to 0 otherwise.
Bit 1: Integrity Status Flag (bit 272 of MT10). Bit 2:  L2C Phasing (bit 273 of MT10).
Bits 3-5: Reserved
Bit 6:  L2C used: bit set if at least part of the navigation data has been decoded from L2C.
Bit 7:  L5 used: bit set if at least part of the navigation data has
been decoded from L5.WNu21 weekWeek number (WNn , 13 bits from MT10)Healthu1L1, L2 and L5 signal health (3 bits from MT10). LSB is L5 health.URA_EDi1Elevation-Dependant accuracy index (URAED, 5 bits from MT10)t_opu41 sData predict time of week (300 * top , 11 bits from MT10/30)t_oeu41 sEphemeris data reference time of week (300 * toe , 11 bits from MT10/11)Af81 mSemi-major axis at reference time (?A, 26 bits from MT10, plus
Aref )A_DOTf81 m / sChange rate in semi-major axis (A? , 25 bits from MT10)DELTA_Nf41 semi-circle / sMean motion difference from computed value at reference time (?n0, 17 bits from MT10)DELTA_N_DOTf41 semi-circle / s2Rate of mean motion difference from computed value (??n0, 23 bits from MT10)M_0f81 semi-circleMean anomaly at reference time (M0-n, 33 bits from MT10)ef8Eccentricity (en , 33 bits from MT10)omegaf81 semi-circleArgument of perigee (?n , 33 bits from MT10)OMEGA_0f81 semi-circleReference right ascension angle (?0-n, 33 bits from MT11)OMEGADOTf81 semi-circle / sRate of right ascension (??? , 17 bits from MT11, plus ?? ref )i_0f81 semi-circleInclination angle at reference time (i0-n, 33 bits from MT11)IDOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of inclination angle (?i0-n, 15 bits from MT11)C_isf41 radAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the angle of inclination (Cis-n, 16 bits from MT11)C_icf41 radAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the angle of inclination (Cic-n, 16 bits from MT11)



C_rsf41 mAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the orbit ra- dius (Crs-n, 24 bits from MT11)C_rcf41 mAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the orbit radius (Crc-n, 24 bits from MT11)C_usf41 radAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the argument of latitude (Cus-n, 21 bits from MT11)C_ucf41 radAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the argu- ment of latitude (Cuc-n, 21 bits from MT11)t_ocu41 sClock data reference time (300 * toc , 11 bits from MT30)URA_NED0i1Non-Elevation-Dependant accuracy index (URANED0, 5 bits from MT30)URA_NED1u1Non-Elevation-Dependant accuracy change index (URANED1, 3 bits from MT30)URA_NED2u1Non-Elevation-Dependant	accuracy	change	rate	index (URANED2, 3 bits from MT30)WN_opu11 weekWeek number associated with t_op, modulo 256 (WNop , 8 bits from MT30)a_f2f41 s / s2Clock drift rate correction coe?cient (af 2-n, 10 bits from MT30)a_f1f41 s / sClock drift correction coe?cient (af 1-n, 20 bits from MT30)a_f0f81 sClock bias correction coe?cient (af 0-n, 26 bits from MT30)T_gdf41 s-2 · 1010 (6)Group delay differential (TGD, 13 bits from MT30)ISC_L1CAf41 s-2 · 1010 (6)Group delay differential L1C/A (ISCL1C/A, 13 bits from MT30)ISC_L2Cf41 s-2 · 1010 (6)Group delay differential L2C (ISCL2C , 13 bits from MT30)ISC_L5I5f41 s-2 · 1010 (6)Group delay differential L5I (ISCL5I5, 13 bits from MT30)ISC_L5Q5f41 s-2 · 1010 (6)Group delay differential L5Q (ISCL5Q5, 13 bits from MT30)Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




























(6)	The Do-Not-Use value is used when the bit string is "1000000000000".


4.2.4 GLONASS Decoded Message Blocks



















































Rev 1

The GLONav block contains the decoded ephemeris data for one GLONASS satellite.





The GLOAlm block contains the decoded navigation data for one GLONASS satellite.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1ID of the GLONASS satellite for which almanac is provided in this block (see 4.1.9).FreqNru1Frequency number of the GLONASS satellite for which almanac is provided in this block (see 4.1.9).
This number corresponds to the HA parameter in the
n
GLONASS ICD.epsilonf4?A: orbit eccentricity
nt_oau41 sReference time-of-week in GPS time frameDelta_if41 semi-circle? iA: correction to inclination
nlambdaf41 semi-circle?A: Longitude of ?rst ascending node
nt_lnf41 stA : time of ?rst ascending node passage
? nomegaf41 semi-circle?A: argument of perigee
nDelta_Tf41 s / orbit-period? TA: correction to mean Draconian period
ndDelta_Tf41 s / orbit-period2d? TA: rate of change correction to mean Draconian period
ntauf41 st A: coarse correction to satellite time
nWN_au11 weekReference week in GPS time frame (modulo 256)Cu1CnA: 1-bit general health ?ag (1 indicates healthy)Nu21 dayNA: calendar day number within 4 year periodMu1MnA: 2-bit GLONASS-M satellite identi?erN_4u1N4: 4 year interval number, starting from 1996Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The GLOTime block contains the decoded non-immediate data related to the difference be- tween GLONASS and GPS, UTC and UT1 time scales.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1ID of the GLONASS satellite from which the data in this block has been decoded (see 4.1.9).FreqNru1Frequency number of the GLONASS satellite from which the data in this block has been decoded (see 4.1.9).N_4u14 year interval number, starting from 1996KPu1noti?cation of leap secondNu21 daycalendar day number within 4 year periodtau_GPSf41 · 109 nsdifference with respect to GPS timetau_cf81 · 109 nsGLONASS time scale correction to UTC(SU)B1f41 sdifference between UT1 and UTC(SU)B2f41 s / msddaily change of B1Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.5 Galileo Decoded Message Blocks


The GalNav block contains the following decoded navigation data for one Galileo satellite:
• orbital elements and clock corrections
• health, Signal-In-Space Accuracy (SISA) indexes and Broadcast Group Delays (BGDs) for each carrier or carrier combinations.
The interpretation of the clock correction parameters (t_oc, a_f0, a_f1, a_f2) depends on the value of the Source ?eld:

Source Message type Applicable Clock Model2I/NAV(L1,E5b)16F/NAV(L1,E5a)
If the receiver is decoding both the I/NAV and the F/NAV data stream, it will output a GalNav block for the I/NAV stream, containing the (L1, E5b) clock model, and a different GalNav block for the F/NAV stream, containing the (L1, E5a) clock model.

Depending on the message type being decoded, some health, SISA or BGD values may not be available (in that case they are set to their respective Do-Not-Use values). The following health, SISA and BGD values are guaranteed to be available for a given value of the Source ?eld:


SourceHealth, SISA and BGD availability2 (I/NAV)At least L1-BDVS, L1-BHS, E5bDVS,E5bHS, SISA_L1E5b and BGD_L1E5b are available16 (F/NAV)At least E5aDVS,E5aHS, SISA_L1E5a and BGD_L1E5a are available
The IODNav ?eld identi?es the issue of data. All orbital elements, clock parameters and SISA values in the block are guaranteed to refer to the same data batch identi?ed by IODNav. The ?elds Health_OSSOL, BGD_L1E5a, BGD_L1E5b and CNAVenc are not covered by the issue of data, and the block simply contains the latest received value.

Please refer to the Galileo Signal-In-Space ICD for the interpretation and usage of the parameters contained in this SBF block.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1SVID of the Galileo satellite (see 4.1.9)Sourceu1See table above: this ?eld indicates how to interpret the clock correction parameters.



SQRT_Af81 m1/2Square root of the semi-major axisM_0f81 semi-circleMean anomaly at reference timeef8Eccentricityi_0f81 semi-circleInclination angle at reference timeomegaf81 semi-circleArgument of perigeeOMEGA_0f81 semi-circleLongitude of ascending node of orbit plane at weekly epochOMEGADOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of right ascensionIDOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of inclination angleDEL_Nf41 semi-circle / sMean motion difference from computed valueC_ucf41 radAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the argu- ment of latitudeC_usf41 radAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the argument of latitudeC_rcf41 mAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the orbit radiusC_rsf41 mAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the orbit ra- diusC_icf41 radAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the angle of inclinationC_isf41 radAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the angle of inclinationt_oeu41 sReference time, ephemerist_ocu41 sReference time, clock. The Source ?eld indicates which clock model t_oc refers to.a_f2f41 s / s2SV clock aging. The Source ?eld indicates which clock model
a_f2 refers to.a_f1f41 s / sSV clock drift. The Source ?eld indicates which clock model a_f1 refers to.a_f0f81 sSV clock bias. The Source ?eld indicates which clock model a_f0 refers to.WNt_oeu21 weekWN associated with t_oe, in GPS time frame, modulo 4096WNt_ocu21 weekWN associated with t_oc, in GPS time frame, modulo 4096IODnavu2Issue of data, navigation (10 bits)Health_OSSOLu2Bit ?eld indicating the last received Health Status (HS) and Data Validity Status (DVS) of the E5a, E5b and L1-B signals:
Bit 0:	If set, bits 1 to 3 are valid, otherwise they must be ig- nored.
Bit 1:	1-bit L1-BDVS
Bits 2-3:	2-bit L1-BHS
Bit 4:	If set, bits 5 to 7 are valid, otherwise they must be ig- nored.
Bit 5:	1-bit E5bDVS Bits 6-7:	2-bit E5bHS
Bit 8:	If set, bits 9 to 11 are valid, otherwise they must be ignored.
Bit 9:	1-bit E5aDVS Bits 10-11: 2-bit E5aHS
Bits 12-15: ReservedHealth_PRSu1ReservedSISA_L1E5au1255Signal-In-Space Accuracy Index (L1, E5a)SISA_L1E5bu1255Signal-In-Space Accuracy Index (L1, E5b)SISA_L1AE6Au1255ReservedBGD_L1E5af41 s-2 · 1010Last received broadcast group delay (L1, E5a)BGD_L1E5bf41 s-2 · 1010Last received broadcast group delay (L1, E5b)BGD_L1AE6Af41 s-2 · 1010Reserved



CNAVencu12552-bit C/NAV encryption status:
Bit 0:  Bit set if E6B is unencrypted Bit 1:  Bit set if E6C is unencrypted Bits 2-7:  ReservedPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The GalAlm block contains the decoded almanac data for one Galileo satellite.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295
SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1SVID of the Galileo satellite from which these almanac parame- ters have been received (see 4.1.9)Sourceu1See corresponding ?eld in the GalNav block.

Source can take the value 18 to indicate that the almanac data contained in this block has been merged from INAV and FNAV pages.ef4Eccentricityt_oau41 salmanac reference time of weekdelta_if41 semi-circleInclination angle at reference time, relative to nominalOMEGADOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of right ascensionSQRT_Af41 m1/2Square root of the semi-major axis, relative to nominalOMEGA_0f41 semi-circleLongitude of ascending node of orbit plane at weekly epochomegaf41 semi-circleArgument of perigeeM_0f41 semi-circleMean anomaly at reference timea_f1f41 s / sSV clock drifta_f0f41 sSV clock biasWN_au11 week2-bit almanac reference weekSVID_Au1SVID of the Galileo satellite of which the almanac parameters are provided in this block (see 4.1.9 for the SVID numbering conven- tion).healthu2Bit ?eld indicating the health status (HS) of the E5a, E5b and L1-B signals:
Bit 0:	If set, bits 1 and 2 are valid, otherwise they must be ignored.
Bits 1-2:	2-bit L1-BHS
Bit 3:	If set, bits 4 and 5 are valid, otherwise they must be ignored.
Bits 4-5:	2-bit E5bHS
Bit 6:	If set, bits 7 and 8 are valid, otherwise they must be ignored.
Bits 7-8:	2-bit E5aHS Bit 9:	Not applicable Bits 10-11: Not applicable
Bit 12:	Not applicable
Bits 13-14: Not applicable Bit 15:	ReservedIODau14-bit Issue of Data for the almanac.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The GalIon block contains the decoded ionosphere model parameters of the Galileo sys- tem.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1SVID of the Galileo satellite from which these param- eters have been received (see 4.1.9)Sourceu1Message type from which the data has been de- coded:
2:	I/NAV
16:	F/NAVa_i0f41 · 10-22 W / (m2 Hz)Effective ionization level, ai0a_i1f41 · 10-22 W / (m2 Hz) / degEffective ionization level, ai1a_i2f41 · 10-22 W / (m2 Hz) / deg2Effective ionization level, ai2StormFlagsu1Bit ?eld containing the ?ve ionospheric storm ?ags: Bit 0:	SF5
Bit 1:	SF4
Bit 2:	SF3
Bit 3:	SF2
Bit 4:	SF1
Bits 5-7: ReservedPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The GalUtc block contains the decoded UTC parameter information.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1SVID of the Galileo satellite from which these parameters have been re- ceived (see 4.1.9)Sourceu1Message type from which the data has been decoded: 2:	I/NAV
16:	F/NAVA_1f41 s / s-2 · 1010?rst order term of polynomialA_0f81 s-2 · 1010constant term of polynomialt_otu41 sreference time of week for UTC dataWN_otu11 weekUTC reference week number, to which t_ot is referencedDEL_t_LSi11 sDelta time due to leap seconds whenever the effectivity time is not in the pastWN_LSFu11 weekEffectivity time of leap second (week)DNu11 dayEffectivity time of leap second (day, from 1 to 7)DEL_t_LSFi11 sDelta time due to leap seconds whenever the effectivity time is in the pastPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded GPS to Galileo System Time offset parameters. This block is only output if these parameters are valid in the navigation page (i.e. if they are not set to "all ones").

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1SVID of the Galileo satellite from which these parameters have been received (see 4.1.9)Sourceu1Message type from which the data has been decoded: 2:	I/NAV
16:	F/NAVA_1Gf41 · 109 ns / sRate of change of the offsetA_0Gf41 · 109 nsConstant term of the offsett_oGu41 sReference time of weekWN_oGu11 week6-bit reference week number.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains a decoded Galileo search-and-rescue (SAR) return link message (RLM).

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SVIDu1SVID of the Galileo satellite from which this RLM has been received.Sourceu1Message type from which the data has been decoded: 2:	I/NAV
16:	F/NAVRLMLengthu1Length of the RLM message in bits. RLMLength can be either 80 for a short message or 160 for a long message.Reservedu1[3]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareRLMBitsu4[N]Bits in the RLM message, with the ?rst bit being the MSB of RLMBits[0].

N is 3 for a short message (i.e. if RLMLength is 80), and 5 for a long message (i.e. if RLMLength is 160).

The 16 unused bits of a short message are set to 0. These bits cor- respond to the 16 LSBs of RLMBits[2].Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.6 BeiDou Decoded Message Blocks


The BDSNav block contains the decoded navigation data for one BeiDou satellite, as received from the D1 or D2 nav message.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the BeiDou satellite of which the ephemeris is given in this block (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareWNu21 weekBeiDou week number as received from the navigation message (from 0 to 8191)URAu1User range accuracy index (4-bit value)SatH1u11-bit autonomous healthIODCu1Age of data, clock (5 bits)IODEu1Age of data, ephemeris (5 bits)Reserved2u2unused, to be ignored by decoding softwareT_GD1f41 sB1I equipment group delay differentialT_GD2f41 s-2 · 1010B2I equipment group delay differential (set to the Do-Not-Use value when unknown)t_ocu41 sclock data reference time, in BeiDou system time (lagging GPS time by 14 seconds).a_f2f41 s / s2SV clock aginga_f1f41 s / sSV clock drifta_f0f41 sSV clock biasC_rsf41 mAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the orbit ra- diusDEL_Nf41 semi-circle / sMean motion difference from computed valueM_0f81 semi-circleMean anomaly at reference timeC_ucf41 radAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the argu- ment of latitudeef8EccentricityC_usf41 radAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the argument of latitudeSQRT_Af81 m1/2Square root of the semi-major axist_oeu41 sReference time ephemeris, in BeiDou system time (lagging GPS time by 14 seconds).C_icf41 radAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the angle of inclinationOMEGA_0f81 semi-circleLongitude of ascending node of orbit plane at weekly epochC_isf41 radAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the angle of inclinationi_0f81 semi-circleInclination angle at reference time



C_rcf41 mAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the orbit radiusomegaf81 semi-circleArgument of perigeeOMEGADOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of right ascensionIDOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of inclination angleWNt_ocu21 weekBeiDou week number associated with t_oc, modulo 8192. Note that this value relates to the BeiDou system time.WNt_oeu21 weekBeiDou week number associated with t_oe, modulo 8192. Note that this values relates to the BeiDou system time.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The BDSAlm block contains the decoded almanac data for one BeiDou satellite.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the BeiDou satellite of which the almanac is given in this block (see 4.1.9)WN_au11 weekAlmanac week numbert_oau41 sAlmanac reference timeSQRT_Af41 m1/2Square root of the semi-major axisef4Eccentricityomegaf41 semi-circleArgument of perigeeM_0f41 semi-circleMean anomaly at reference timeOMEGA_0f41 semi-circleLongitude of ascending node of orbital plane computed accord- ing to reference timeOMEGADOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of right ascensiondelta_if41 semi-circleCorrection of orbit reference inclination at reference timea_f0f41 sSatellite clock biasa_f1f41 s / sSatellite clock driftHealthu2Satellite health information (9 bits)Reservedu1[2]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwarePaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The BDSIon block contains the BeiDou ionosphere data (the Klobuchar coe?cients), as re- ceived from the D1 or D2 nav message.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the BeiDou satellite from which the coe?cients have been received (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwarealpha_0f41 svertical delay coe?cient 0alpha_1f41 s / semi-circlevertical delay coe?cient 1alpha_2f41 s / semi-circle2vertical delay coe?cient 2alpha_3f41 s / semi-circle3vertical delay coe?cient 3beta_0f41 smodel period coe?cient 0beta_1f41 s / semi-circlemodel period coe?cient 1beta_2f41 s / semi-circle2model period coe?cient 2beta_3f41 s / semi-circle3model period coe?cient 3Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The BDSUtc block contains the BeiDou UTC data, as received from the D1 or D2 nav message.

Note that BDT (BeiDou time) started on January 1st, 2006 (GPS week 1356). Therefore the delta time between BDT and UTC due to leap seconds is 14 less than the value in GPSUtc.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the BeiDou satellite from which the coe?cients have been received (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareA_1f41 s / s?rst order term of polynomialA_0f81 sconstant term of polynomialDEL_t_LSi11 sDelta time due to leap seconds whenever the effectivity time is not in the pastWN_LSFu11 weekEffectivity time of leap second (week)DNu11 dayEffectivity time of leap second (day, from 0 to 6)DEL_t_LSFi11 sDelta time due to leap seconds whenever the effectivity time is in the pastPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.7 QZSS Decoded Message Blocks


The QZSNav block contains the decoded navigation data for one QZSS satellite. The data is decoded from the navigation message transmitted by the L1C/A or L1C/B signal. Refer to the QZSS ICD for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the QZSS satellite of which the ephemeris is given in this block (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareWNu21 week65535Week number (10 bits from subframe 1, word 3)CAorPonL2u1Code(s) on L2 channel (2 bits from subframe 1, word 3). Always 2 for QZSS satellites.URAu1User Range accuracy index (4 bits from subframe 1 word 3)healthu16-bit health from subframe 1, word 3 (6 bits from subframe 1,
word 3)L2DataFlagu1Data ?ag for L2 P-code (1 bit from subframe 1, word 4). Always 1 for QZSS satellites.IODCu2Issue of data, clock (10 bits from subframe 1)IODE2u1Issue of data, ephemeris (8 bits from subframe 2)IODE3u1Issue of data, ephemeris (8 bits from subframe 3)FitIntFlgu1Curve Fit Interval, (1 bit from subframe 2, word 10)Reserved2u1unused, to be ignored by decoding softwareT_gdf41 s-2 · 1010Estimated group delay differentialt_ocu41 sclock data reference timea_f2f41 s / s2SV clock aginga_f1f41 s / sSV clock drifta_f0f41 sSV clock biasC_rsf41 mAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the orbit ra- diusDEL_Nf41 semi-circle / sMean motion difference from computed valueM_0f81 semi-circleMean anomaly at reference timeC_ucf41 radAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the argu- ment of latitudeef8EccentricityC_usf41 radAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the argument of latitudeSQRT_Af81 m1/2Square root of the semi-major axist_oeu41 sReference time ephemerisC_icf41 radAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the angle of inclinationOMEGA_0f81 semi-circleLongitude of ascending node of orbit plane at weekly epoch



C_isf41 radAmplitude of the sine harmonic correction term to the angle of inclinationi_0f81 semi-circleInclination angle at reference timeC_rcf41 mAmplitude of the cosine harmonic correction term to the orbit radiusomegaf81 semi-circleArgument of perigeeOMEGADOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of right ascensionIDOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of inclination angleWNt_ocu21 weekWN associated with t_oc, modulo 1024WNt_oeu21 weekWN associated with t_oe, modulo 1024Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The QZSAlm block contains the decoded almanac data for one QZSS satellite. These data are conveyed in subframes 4 and 5 of the satellite navigation message. Refer to QZSS ICD for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the QZSS satellite of which the almanac is given in this block (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareef4Difference from reference eccentricityt_oau41 salmanac reference time of weekdelta_if41 semi-circleDifference from reference angle of inclinationOMEGADOTf41 semi-circle / sRate of right ascensionSQRT_Af41 m1/2Square root of the semi-major axisOMEGA_0f41 semi-circleLongitude of ascending node of orbit plane at weekly epochomegaf41 semi-circleArgument of perigeeM_0f41 semi-circleMean anomaly at reference timea_f1f41 s / sSV clock drifta_f0f41 sSV clock biasWN_au11 weekAlmanac reference week, to which t_oa is referencedReserved2u1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwarehealth8u1health on 8 bits from the almanac pagehealth6u1health summary on 6 bits (from subframe 4, page 25 and sub- frame 5 page 25)Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.8 SBAS L1 Decoded Message Blocks


This block is sent to indicate that an empty SBAS message type 0 has been received.

Depending on the SBAS operational mode, message type 0 can contain the contents of message type 2. Upon reception of a message type 0, the receiver checks whether the message is empty (it contains only 0's) or whether it contains the message type 2 contents. In the former case, a GEOMT00 block will be generated. In the latter case, a GEOFastCorr block will be generated. Refer to section A.4.4.1 of the DO 229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite from which the message has been received (see 4.1.9)Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded PRN mask transmitted in SBAS message type 1. Refer to section A.4.4.2 of the DO 229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite from which the message has been received (see 4.1.9)IODPu1Issue of data - PRN.NbrPRNsu1Number of PRNs designated in the mask.PRNMasku1[NbrPRNs]List of the PRNs in the PRN mask.

PRNMask[0] is the ?rst PRN designated in the PRN mask (from 1 to 210),
PRNMask[1] is the 2nd PRN designated in the PRN mask, etc...Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded fast corrections transmitted in the SBAS message types 2, 3, 4, 5, 24 and possibly 0 if the type 0 message contains the type 2 contents. Refer to section
A.4.4.3 and A.4.4.8 of the DO 229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite from which the message has been received (see 4.1.9)MTu1Message type from which these fast corrections come, either 0, 2, 3, 4, 5
or 24.IODPu1Issue of data - PRN.IODFu1Issue of data - fast corrections.Nu1Number of fast correction sets in this message. This is the number of
FastCorr sub-blocks. N depends on the message type as follows.SBLengthu1Length of the FastCorr sub-blocks in bytesFastCorr......A succession of N FastCorr sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
FastCorr sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDescriptionPRNMaskNou1Sequence number in the PRN mask. This ?eld may be set to zero. In that case, all fol- lowing ?elds in this sub-block must be discarded.UDREIu1User Differential Range Error Indicator for the PRN at index PRNMaskNo.Reservedu1[2]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwarePRCf41 mPseudorange correction for the PRN at index PRNMaskNo.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded integrity information transmitted in SBAS message type 6. Refer to section A.4.4.4 of the DO-229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite from which the message has been received (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareIODFu1[4]Issue of data - fast corrections for MT02, MT03, MT04 and MT05.UDREIu1[51]User Differential Range Error Indicator for each of the 51 slots in the PRN mask.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded fast correction degradation factors transmitted in SBAS mes- sage type 7. Refer to section A.4.4.5 of the DO-229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite from which the message has been received (see 4.1.9)IODPu1Issue of data - PRN.t_latu11 sSystem latency.aiu1[51]Degradation factor indicator (from 0 to 15) for each of the 51 slots in the PRN mask.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded navigation data transmitted in SBAS message type 9. Refer to section A.4.4.11 of the DO-229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite of which the navigation data is provided here (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareIODNu2Issue of data - navigation (DO 229-B) Spare (DO 229-C)URAu2Accuracy exponentt0u41 sTime of applicability (time-of-day)Xgf81 mX position at time-of-day t0Ygf81 mY position at time-of-day t0Zgf81 mZ position at time-of-day t0Xgdf81 m / sX velocity at time-of-day t0Ygdf81 m / sY velocity at time-of-day t0Zgdf81 m / sZ velocity at time-of-day t0Xgddf81 m / s2X acceleration at time-of-day t0Ygddf81 m / s2Y acceleration at time-of-day t0Zgddf81 m / s2Z acceleration at time-of-day t0aGf0f41 sTime offset with respect to SBAS network timeaGf1f41 s / sTime drift with respect to SBAS network timePaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded degradation factors transmitted in SBAS message type 10. Refer to section A.4.5 of the DO-229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite from which the message has been received (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareBrrcf81 mA parameter associated with the relative estimation noise and round-off error.Cltc_lsbf81 mMaximum round-off error due to the LSB resolution of the orbit and clock information.Cltc_v1f81 m / sVelocity error bound on the maximum range rate difference of missed messages due to clock and orbit rate differences.Iltc_v1u41 sUpdate interval for long term corrections when the velocity code is 1.Cltc_v0f81 mBound on the update delta between successive long term corrections.Iltc_v0u41 sMinimum update interval for long term messages when the velocity code is 0.Cgeo_lsbf81 mMaximum round-off error due to the LSB resolution of the orbit and clock information.Cgeo_vf81 m / sVelocity error bound on the maximum range rate difference of missed messages due to clock and orbit rate differences.Igeou41 sUpdate interval for GEO navigation messages.Cerf41 mA degradation parameter.Ciono_stepf81 mBound on the difference between successive ionospheric grid delay val- ues.Iionou41 sMinimum update interval for ionospheric correction messages.Ciono_rampf81 m / sRate of change of the ionospheric corrections.RSSudreu1Root-sum-square ?ag (UDRE)RSSionou1Root-sum-square ?ag (IONO)Reserved2u1[2]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareCcovariancef8A parameter used to compensate for the errors introduced by quantiza- tion (introduced in DO 229-C). To be multiplied by the SF parameter from the GEOClockEphCovMatrix block.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded network time offset parameters transmitted in SBAS mes- sage type 12. Refer to section A.4.4.15 of the DO-229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite from which this Network Time data was received (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareA_1f41 s / s?rst order term of polynomialA_0f81 sconstant term of polynomialt_otu41 sreference time for UTC data (time of week)WN_tu11 weekUTC reference week number, to which t_ot is referencedDEL_t_LSi11 sDelta time due to leap seconds whenever the effectivity time is not in the pastWN_LSFu11 weekEffectivity time of leap second (week)DNu11 dayEffectivity time of leap second (day)DEL_t_LSFi11 sDelta time due to leap seconds whenever the effectivity time is in the pastUTC_stdu1UTC Standard Identi?erGPS_WNu21 weekGPS week number (modulo 1024)GPS_TOWu41 sGPS time-of-weekGlonassIDu1Glonass IndicatorPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded almanac data for one SBAS satellite, as transmitted in SBAS message type 17. A different GEOAlm block is generated for each of the up to three almanac data sets in MT17. Refer to section A.4.4.12 of the DO-229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite of which the almanac is provided here (see 4.1.9)Reserved0u1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareDataIDu1Data IDReserved1u1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareHealthu2Health bitst_oau41 sTime of applicability with the day ambiguity resolved. This is the time in GPS seconds from Jan 6th, 1980.Xgf81 mX position at t_oaYgf81 mY position at t_oaZgf81 mZ position at t_oaXgdf81 m / sX velocity at t_oaYgdf81 m / sY velocity at t_oaZgdf81 m / sZ velocity at t_oaPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded ionospheric grid point mask transmitted in SBAS message type 18. Refer to section A.4.4.9 of the DO-229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite from which the message has been received (see 4.1.9)NbrBandsu1Number of bands being broadcast.BandNbru1Band number.IODIu1Issue of data - ionosphere.NbrIGPsu1Number of ionospheric grid points (IGP) designated in the mask.IGPMasku1[NbrIGPs]List of the IGPs in the IGP mask.

IGPMask[0] is the ?rst IGP designated in the IGP mask (from 1 to 201),
IGPMask[1] is the 2nd IGP designated in the IGP mask, etc...Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded long term corrections transmitted in SBAS message types 24 and 25. Refer to section A.4.4.7 and A.4.4.8 of the DO-229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite from which the message has been received (see 4.1.9)Nu1Number of long-term corrections in this message. This is the number of
LTCorr sub-blocks. N can be 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4.SBLengthu11 byteLength of the LTCorr sub-blocks in bytesReservedu1[3]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareLTCorr......A succession of N LTCorr sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
LTCorr sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDescriptionVelocityCodeu1Velocity code (0 or 1)PRNMaskNou1Sequence in the PRN mask, from 1 to 51. Note that if the PRN mask No. from the original message is 0, the corresponding long term corrections are ignored, and hence not included in the GEOLongTermCorr block.IODPu1Issue of data - PRN.IODEu1Issue of data - ephemeris.dxf41 mSatellite position offset (x).dyf41 mSatellite position offset (y).dzf41 mSatellite position offset (z).dxRatef41 m / sSatellite velocity offset (x), or 0.0 if VelocityCode is 0.dyRatef41 m / sSatellite velocity offset (y), or 0.0 if VelocityCode is 0.dzRatef41 m / sSatellite velocity offset (z), or 0.0 if VelocityCode is 0.da_f0f41 sSatellite clock offset.da_f1f41 s / sSatellite drift correction, or 0.0 if VelocityCode is 0.t_oeu41 sTime-of-day of applicability, or 0 if VelocityCode is 0.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded ionospheric delays transmitted in SBAS message type 26. Refer to section A.4.4.10 of the DO-229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite from which the message has been received (see 4.1.9)BandNbru1Band numberIODIu1Issue of data - ionosphere.Nu1Number of ionospheric delay corrections in this message. This is the num- ber of IDC sub-blocks. N is always 15.SBLengthu11 byteLength of the IDC sub-blocks in bytes.Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareIDC......A succession of N IDC sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
IDC sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDescriptionIGPMaskNou1Sequence number in the IGP mask (see GEOIGPMask block), from 1 to 201.GIVEIu1Grid Ionospheric Vertical Error Indicator, from 0 to 15Reservedu1[2]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareVerticalDelayf41 mIGP vertical delay estimate.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains a decoded service level message for a geostationary SBAS satellite as sent in message type 27. Refer to section A.4.4.13 of the DO-229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1ID of the SBAS satellite from which this service level message was received (see 4.1.9)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareIODSu1Issue of Data Service level, ranging from 0 to 7nrMessagesu1Number of service messages (MT27), from 1 to 8MessageNRu1Service message number, from 1 to 8PriorityCodeu1Priority Code, from 0 to 3dUDREI_Inu1dUDRE Indicator for users inside the service region, from 0 to 15dUDREI_Outu1dUDRE Indicator for users outside the service region, from 0 to 15Nu1Number of Regions in this message.	This is the number of
ServiceRegion sub-blocks. Ranging from 0 to 7SBLengthu11 byteLength of the ServiceRegion sub-blocks in bytesRegions......A succession of N ServiceRegion sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
ServiceRegion sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDescriptionLatitude1i11 degreeCoordinate 1 latitude, from -90 to +90Latitude2i11 degreeCoordinate 2 latitude, from -90 to +90Longitude1i21 degreeCoordinate 1 longitude, from -180 to +180Longitude2i21 degreeCoordinate 2 longitude, from -180 to +180RegionShapeu1Region Shape: 0=triangular, 1=squarePaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the decoded clock-ephemeris covariance Cholesky factor matrix trans- mitted in SBAS message type 28. Refer to section A.4.4.16 of the DO-229 standard for further details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295SIS time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535PRNu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9IODPu1Issue of data - PRN.Nu1Number of covariance matrices in this message. This is the number of
CovMatrix sub-blocks. N can be 1 or 2.SBLengthu11 byteLength of the CovMatrix sub-blocks in bytesReservedu1[2]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareCovMatrix......A succession of N CovMatrix sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
CovMatrix sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDescriptionPRNMaskNou1Sequence number in the PRN mask, from 1 to 51. Note that if the PRN mask No. from the original message is 0, the corresponding matrix is ignored, and hence not included in the GEOClockEphCovMatrix block.Reservedu1[2]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareScaleExpu1Scale exponent; scale factor ( = 2(scale exponent - 5))E11u2E1,1E22u2E2,2E33u2E3,3E44u2E4,4E12i2E1,2E13i2E1,3E14i2E1,4E23i2E2,3E24i2E2,4E34i2E3,4Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.9 GNSS Position, Velocity and Time Blocks


This block contains the GNSS-based position, velocity and time (PVT) solution at the time speci?ed in the TOW and WNc ?elds. The time of applicability is speci?ed in the receiver time frame.

The computed position (x , y , z) and velocity (vx , vy , vz) are reported in a Cartesian co- ordinate system using the datum indicated in the Datum ?eld. The position is that of the marker. The ARP-to-marker offset is set through the command setAntennaOffset.

The PVT solution is also available in ellipsoidal form in the PVTGeodetic block.

The variance-covariance information associated with the reported PVT solution can be found in the PosCovCartesian and VelCovCartesian blocks.

If no PVT solution is available, the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the unavailability and all ?elds after the Error ?eld are set to their respective Do-Not-Use values.



ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows: Bits 0-3:  type of PVT solution:
0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5:  Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of determining its ?xed position.
Bit 7:   2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned:
0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK- ?xed positionsXf81 m-2 · 1010X coordinate in coordinate frame speci?ed by DatumYf81 m-2 · 1010Y coordinate in coordinate frame speci?ed by DatumZf81 m-2 · 1010Z coordinate in coordinate frame speci?ed by DatumUndulationf41 m-2 · 1010Geoid undulation. See the setGeoidUndulation command.Vxf41 m / s-2 · 1010Velocity in the X directionVyf41 m / s-2 · 1010Velocity in the Y directionVzf41 m / s-2 · 1010Velocity in the Z directionCOGf41 degree-2 · 1010Course over ground: this is de?ned as the angle of the vehicle with re- spect to the local level North, ranging from 0 to 360, and increasing to- wards east. Set to the Do-Not-Use value when the speed is lower than 0.1m/s.RxClkBiasf81 ms-2 · 1010Receiver clock bias relative to the system time reported in the TimeSystem ?eld. Positive when the receiver time is ahead of the sys- tem time. To transfer the receiver time to the system time, use:
tsys = trx - RxClkBiasRxClkDriftf41 ppm-2 · 1010Receiver clock drift relative to the GNSS system time (relative frequency error). Positive when the receiver clock runs faster than the system time.






























































Rev 1







Rev 1


















Rev 2





This block contains the GNSS-based position, velocity and time (PVT) solution at the time speci?ed in the TOW and WNc ?elds. The time of applicability is speci?ed in the receiver time frame.

The computed position (?,?,h) and velocity (vn, ve, vu) are reported in an ellipsoidal co- ordinate system using the datum indicated in the Datum ?eld. The velocity vector is expressed relative to the local-level Cartesian coordinate frame with north-, east-, up-unit vectors. The position is that of the marker. The ARP-to-marker offset is set through the command setAntennaOffset.

The PVT solution is also available in Cartesian form in the PVTCartesian block.

The variance-covariance information associated with the reported PVT solution can be found in the PosCovGeodetic and VelCovGeodetic blocks.

If no PVT solution is available, the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the unavailability and all ?elds after the Error ?eld are set to their respective Do-Not-Use values.



ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows: Bits 0-3:  type of PVT solution:
0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5:  Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of determining its ?xed position.
Bit 7:   2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned:
0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK- ?xed positionsLatitudef81 rad-2 · 1010Latitude, from -p/2 to +p/2, positive North of EquatorLongitudef81 rad-2 · 1010Longitude, from -p to +p, positive East of GreenwichHeightf81 m-2 · 1010Ellipsoidal height (with respect to the ellipsoid speci?ed by Datum)Undulationf41 m-2 · 1010Geoid undulation. See the setGeoidUndulation command.Vnf41 m / s-2 · 1010Velocity in the North directionVef41 m / s-2 · 1010Velocity in the East directionVuf41 m / s-2 · 1010Velocity in the 'Up' directionCOGf41 degree-2 · 1010Course over ground: this is de?ned as the angle of the vehicle with re- spect to the local level North, ranging from 0 to 360, and increasing to- wards east. Set to the Do-Not-Use value when the speed is lower than 0.1m/s.RxClkBiasf81 ms-2 · 1010Receiver clock bias relative to the system time reported in the TimeSystem ?eld. Positive when the receiver time is ahead of the sys- tem time. To transfer the receiver time to the system time, use:
tsys = trx - RxClkBiasRxClkDriftf41 ppm-2 · 1010Receiver clock drift relative to the GNSS system time (relative frequency error). Positive when the receiver clock runs faster than the system time.






























































Rev 1







Rev 1


















Rev 2





This block contains the elements of the symmetric variance-covariance matrix of the position expressed relative to the Cartesian axes of the coordinate system datum requested by the user:
? s2	sxy	sxz	sxb ?

syx	s2
?

syz	syb

??szx	szy	sz	szb??
sbx	sby	sbz	s2


This variance-covariance matrix contains an indication of the accuracy of the estimated parameters (see diagonal elements) and the correlation between these estimates (see off-diagonal elements). Note that the variances and covariances are estimated: they are not necessarily indicative of the actual scatter of the position estimates at a given site.

The position variance results from the propagation of all pseudorange variances using the observation geometry. The receiver implements a stochastic error model for individual measurements, based on parameters such as the C/N0, the satellite elevation, the pseudor- ange type, the URA of the broadcast ephemeris and the ionospheric model.

If the ellipsoidal height is not estimated (2D-mode), all components of the variance- covariance matrix are unde?ned and set to their Do-Not-Use value.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows:
Bits 0-3: type of PVT solution:

0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5: Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of de- termining its ?xed position.
Bit 7: 2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).



Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned:
0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK-?xed positionsCov_xxf41 m2-2 · 1010Variance of the x estimateCov_yyf41 m2-2 · 1010Variance of the y estimateCov_zzf41 m2-2 · 1010Variance of the z estimateCov_bbf41 m2-2 · 1010Variance of the clock bias estimateCov_xyf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the x and y estimatesCov_xzf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the x and z estimatesCov_xbf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the x and clock bias estimatesCov_yzf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the y and z estimatesCov_ybf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the y and clock bias estimatesCov_zbf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the z and clock bias estimatesPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the elements of the symmetric variance-covariance matrix of the position expressed in the geodetic coordinates in the datum requested by the user:
? s2	s??	s?h	s?b ?

?s??	s?

s?h	s?b ?

???sh?	sh?	s2	shb ???
sb?	sb?	sbh	s2
Please refer to the PosCovCartesian block description for a general explanation of the contents.

Note that the units of measure for all the variances and covariances, for height as well as for latitude and longitude, are m2 for ease of interpretation.

If the ellipsoidal height is not estimated (2D-mode), all height related components of the variance-covariance matrix are unde?ned and set to their Do-Not-Use value.



ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows:
Bits 0-3: type of PVT solution:

0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5: Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of de- termining its ?xed position.
Bit 7: 2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned:
0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK-?xed positionsCov_latlatf41 m2-2 · 1010Variance of the latitude estimateCov_lonlonf41 m2-2 · 1010Variance of the longitude estimateCov_hgthgtf41 m2-2 · 1010Variance of the height estimateCov_bbf41 m2-2 · 1010Variance of the clock-bias estimateCov_latlonf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the latitude and longitude estimatesCov_lathgtf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the latitude and height estimatesCov_latbf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the latitude and clock-bias estimatesCov_lonhgtf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the longitude and height estimatesCov_lonbf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the longitude and clock-bias estimatesCov_hbf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the height and clock-bias estimatesPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the elements of the symmetric variance-covariance matrix of the velocity expressed in the Cartesian coordinates of the coordinate system datum requested by the user:
2	svx vy	svx vz	svx d ?

svy vx	s2
?

svy vz	svy d

??svz vx	svz vy	svz	svz d ??
sdvx	sdvy	sdvz	s2
Please refer to the PosCovCartesian block description for a general explanation of the contents.

If the up-velocity is not estimated (2D-mode), all components of the variance-covariance matrix are unde?ned and set to their Do-Not-Use value.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows: Bits 0-3: type of PVT solution:
0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5: Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of de- termining its ?xed position.
Bit 7: 2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned:
0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK- ?xed positions



Cov_VxVxf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Variance of the x-velocity estimateCov_VyVyf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Variance of the y-velocity estimateCov_VzVzf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Variance of the z-velocity estimateCov_DtDtf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Variance of the clock drift estimateCov_VxVyf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the x- and y-velocity estimatesCov_VxVzf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the x- and z-velocity estimatesCov_VxDtf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the x-velocity and the clock drift estimatesCov_VyVzf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the y- and z-velocity estimatesCov_VyDtf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the y-velocity and the clock drift estimatesCov_VzDtf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the z-velocity and the clock drift estimatesPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the elements of the symmetric variance-covariance matrix of the velocity expressed in the geodetic coordinates in the datum requested by the user:

? s2


sv v	sv v

sv d ?

svE vN

2	svE vU

svE

??sv v

sv v

s2	sv



d ??


Please refer to the PosCovCartesian block description for a general explanation of the contents.

If the up-velocity is not estimated (2D-mode), all up-velocity related components of the variance-covariance matrix are unde?ned and set to their Do-Not-Use value.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows: Bits 0-3: type of PVT solution:
0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5: Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of de- termining its ?xed position.
Bit 7: 2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned:
0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK- ?xed positions



Cov_VnVnf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Variance of the north-velocity estimateCov_VeVef41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Variance of the east-velocity estimateCov_VuVuf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Variance of the up-velocity estimateCov_DtDtf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Variance of the clock drift estimateCov_VnVef41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the north- and east-velocity estimatesCov_VnVuf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the north- and up-velocity estimatesCov_VnDtf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the north-velocity and clock drift estimatesCov_VeVuf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the east- and up-velocity estimatesCov_VeDtf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the east-velocity and clock drift estimatesCov_VuDtf41 m2 / s2-2 · 1010Covariance between the up-velocity and clock drift estimatesPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains both Dilution of Precision (DOP) values and SBAS protection levels. The DOP values result from a trace of the unit position variance-covariance matrices:

Position Dilution of Precision:	PDOP =	Qxx + Qyy + Qzz

Time Dilution of Precision:	 TDOP =	Qbb Horizontal Dilution of Precision:	HDOP =	Q?? + Q?? Vertical Dilution of Precision:	 VDOP =	Qhh
In these equations, the matrix Q is the inverse of the unweighted normal matrix used for the computation of the position. The normal matrix equals the product of the geometry matrix A with its transpose (At A). The term "unweighted" implies that the DOP factor only addresses the effect of the geometric factors on the quality of the position.

The DOP values can be used to interpret the current constellation geometry.  This is an important parameter for the quality of the position ?x: the DOP parameter is the propagation factor of the pseudorange variance. For example, if an error of 5 m is present in the pseudorange, it will propagate into the horizontal plane with a factor expressed by the HDOP. Hence a low DOP value indicates that the satellites used for the position ?x result in a low multiplication of the systematic ranging errors. A value of six (6) for the PDOP is generally considered as the maximum value allowed for an acceptable position computation.

The horizontal and vertical protection levels (HPL and VPL) indicate the integrity of the computed horizontal and vertical position components as per the DO 229 speci?cation. In SBAS-aided PVT mode (see the Mode ?eld of the PVTCartesian SBF block), HPL and VPL are based upon the error estimates provided by SBAS. Otherwise they are based upon internal position-mode dependent error estimates.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535NrSVu10Total number of satellites used in the DOP computation, or 0 if the DOP information is not available (in that case, the xDOP ?elds are all set to 0)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwarePDOPu20.010If 0, PDOP not available, otherwise divide by 100 to obtain PDOP.TDOPu20.010If 0, TDOP not available, otherwise divide by 100 to obtain TDOP.HDOPu20.010If 0, HDOP not available, otherwise divide by 100 to obtain HDOP.VDOPu20.010If 0, VDOP not available, otherwise divide by 100 to obtain VDOP.HPLf41 m-2 · 1010Horizontal Protection Level (see the DO 229 standard).VPLf41 m-2 · 1010Vertical Protection Level (see the DO 229 standard).Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the absolute and relative (relative to the nearest base station) position at the time speci?ed in the TOW and WNc ?elds. The time of applicability is speci?ed in the receiver time frame.

The absolute position (X, Y, Z) is reported in a Cartesian coordinate system using the datum indicated in the Datum ?eld. The position is that of the marker. The ARP-to-marker offset is set through the command setAntennaOffset.

For highest accuracy, the receiver tries to compute the baseline (Base2RoverX, Base2RoverY, Base2RoverZ) from rover ARP to base ARP. See the description of the BaseVectorCart block for details.

Accurate ARP-to-ARP baseline is guaranteed only if both bits 0 and 1 of the Misc ?eld are set. Otherwise, centimeter-level offsets may arise because the receiver cannot make the distinction between phase center and ARP positions. See section 2.5 for a discussion on the phase center and ARP positions.

This block also contains the variance-covariance information and DOP factors associ- ated with the position.



ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows:
Bits 0-3: type of PVT solution:

0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5: Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of de- termining its ?xed position.
Bit 7: 2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned:
0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK-?xed positionsXf81 m-2 · 1010X coordinate in coordinate frame speci?ed by DatumYf81 m-2 · 1010Y coordinate in coordinate frame speci?ed by DatumZf81 m-2 · 1010Z coordinate in coordinate frame speci?ed by DatumBase2RoverXf81 m-2 · 1010X baseline component (from base to rover)Base2RoverYf81 m-2 · 1010Y baseline component (from base to rover)Base2RoverZf81 m-2 · 1010Z baseline component (from base to rover)Cov_xxf41 m2-2 · 1010Variance of the x estimateCov_yyf41 m2-2 · 1010Variance of the y estimateCov_zzf41 m2-2 · 1010Variance of the z estimateCov_xyf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the x and y estimatesCov_xzf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the x and z estimatesCov_yzf41 m2-2 · 1010Covariance between the y and z estimatesPDOPu20.010If 0, PDOP not available, otherwise divide by 100 to obtain PDOP.HDOPu20.010If 0, HDOP not available, otherwise divide by 100 to obtain HDOP.VDOPu20.010If 0, VDOP not available, otherwise divide by 100 to obtain VDOP.



Miscu1Bit ?eld containing miscellaneous ?ags:
Bit 0: In DGNSS or RTK mode, set if the baseline points to the base sta- tion ARP. Unset if it points to the antenna phase center, or if un- known.
Bit 1:  Set if the phase center offset is compensated for at the rover, unset if not or unknown.
Bit 2:  Proprietary.
Bit 3:  Proprietary.
Bits 4-5: Proprietary.
Bits 6-7: Flag indicating whether the marker position reported in this block is also the ARP position (i.e. whether the ARP-to-marker offset provided with the setAntennaOffset command is zero or not)
0:	Unknown
1:	The ARP-to-marker offset is zero
2:	The ARP-to-marker offset is not zeroReservedu1Reserved for future use.AlertFlagu10Bit ?eld indicating integrity related information:
Bits 0-1: RAIM integrity ?ag:
0:	RAIM not active (integrity not monitored) 1:	RAIM integrity test successful
2:	RAIM integrity test failed 3:	Reserved

Bit 2:	set if integrity has failed as per Galileo HPCA (HMI Probability Computation Algorithm)
Bit 3:	set if Galileo ionospheric storm ?ag is active Bit 4:	Reserved
Bits 5-7: ReservedDatumu1255This ?eld de?nes in which datum the coordinates are expressed: 0:	WGS84/ITRS
19:	Datum equal to that used by the DGNSS/RTK base station 30:	ETRS89 (ETRF2000 realization)
31:	NAD83(2011), North American Datum (2011)
32:	NAD83(PA11), North American Datum, Paci?c plate (2011)
33:	NAD83(MA11), North American Datum, Marianas plate (2011) 34:	GDA94(2010), Geocentric Datum of Australia (2010)
35:	GDA2020, Geocentric Datum of Australia 2020 36:	JGD2011, Japanese Geodetic Datum 2011
250: First user-de?ned datum
251: Second user-de?ned datumNrSVu1255Total number of satellites used in the PVT computation.WACorrInfou10Bit ?eld providing information about which corrections have been ap- plied:
Bit 0:	set if orbit and satellite clock correction information is used Bit 1:	set if range correction information is used
Bit 2:	set if ionospheric information is used
Bit 3:	set if orbit accuracy information is used (UERE/SISA) Bit 4:	set if DO229 Precision Approach mode is active
Bits 5-6: Type of RTK or DGNSS differential corrections:

0:	unknown or not in differential positioning mode (DGNSS or RTK)
1:	corrections from a physical base
2:	corrections from a virtual base (VRS)
3:	SSR corrections (RTK using SSR corrections is often re- ferred to as RTK-SSR or PPP-RTK)
Bit 7:	ReservedReferenceIdu265535This ?eld indicates the reference ID of the differential information used. In case of DGNSS or RTK operation, this ?eld is to be interpreted as the base station identi?er. In SBAS operation, this ?eld is to be interpreted as the PRN of the geostationary satellite used (from 120 to 158). If multiple base stations or multiple geostationary satellites are used the value is set to 65534.



MeanCorrAgeu20.01 s65535In case of DGNSS or RTK, this ?eld is the mean age of the differential cor- rections.
In case of SBAS operation, this ?eld is the mean age of the 'fast correc- tions' provided by the SBAS satellites.
In case of PPP, this is the age of the last received clock or orbit correction message.SignalInfou40Bit ?eld indicating the type of GNSS signals having been used in the PVT computations. If a bit i is set, the signal type having index i has been used. The signal numbers are listed in section 4.1.10. Bit 0 (GPS-C/A) is the LSB of SignalInfo.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the position at the time speci?ed in the TOW and WNc ?elds. The time of applicability is speci?ed in the receiver time frame.

The position (Lat, Lon, Alt) relates to the local datum identi?ed with the Datum ?eld. The coordinate transformation to the local datum is done using parameters transmitted by the RTK service provider in RTCM message types MT1021 to MT1023.

The position is that of the marker.  The ARP-to-marker offset is set through the com- mand setAntennaOffset.
If no position is available, the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the unavailability and all ?elds after the Error ?eld are set to their respective Do-Not-Use values.

To be able to output a position in the PosLocal block, the receiver needs to have re- ceived the relevant RTCM transformation messages (at least either MT1021 or MT1022 is required). If they have not been received yet, the local position is not available and the Error ?eld is set to value 17. See also section 2.4.6.

The corresponding RTCMDatum block provides information on the local datum name and transformation quality indicators. The corresponding RTCMDatum block is the one of which the Datum ?eld matches the Datum ?eld in the PosLocal block.



ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows:
Bits 0-3: type of PVT solution:

0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5: Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of de- termining its ?xed position.
Bit 7: 2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned:
0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK-?xed positions
17:	Datum transformation parameters unknownLatf81 rad-2 · 1010Latitude, from -p/2 to +p/2, positive North of EquatorLonf81 rad-2 · 1010Longitude, from -p to +p, positive East of GreenwichAltf81 m-2 · 1010Height. See the HeightType ?eld of the corresponding RTCMDatum
block for the interpretation of the height.Datumu1Reference frame to which the position relate. If the value is in the 20 to 24 range, the corresponding datum parameters can be found in the RTCMDatum block having a matching Datum ?eld.
Value 25 corresponds to the local coordinate reference system selected
with the setLocalCoordOperation command.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the projected coordinates at the time speci?ed in the TOW and WNc ?elds. The time of applicability is speci?ed in the receiver time frame.

The coordinates (Northing, Easting, Alt) relate to the local datum identi?ed with the Datum ?eld. The coordinate transformation and projection is done using parameters transmitted by the RTK service provider in RTCM message types MT1021 to MT1027.

The position is that of the marker.  The ARP-to-marker offset is set through the com- mand setAntennaOffset.
If no position is available, the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the unavailability and all ?elds after the Error ?eld are set to their respective Do-Not-Use values.

To be able to output a position in the PosProjected block, the receiver needs to have received at least one RTCM message in the MT1025 to MT1027 range. If none of these messages is sent out by the service provider, or if they have not been received yet, the projected position is not available and the Error ?eld is set to value 17. See also section 2.4.6.

The corresponding RTCMDatum block provides information on the local datum name and transformation/projection quality indicators. The corresponding RTCMDatum block is the one of which the Datum ?eld matches the Datum ?eld in the PosProjected block.



ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows:
Bits 0-3: type of PVT solution:

0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5: Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of de- termining its ?xed position.
Bit 7: 2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned:
0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK-?xed positions
17:	Datum transformation parameters unknownNorthingf81 m-2 · 1010Northing coordinate in the plane grid representation.Eastingf81 m-2 · 1010Easting coordinate in the plane grid representation.Altf81 m-2 · 1010Height. If the Datum ?eld is in the 20 to 24 range, see the HeightType ?eld of the corresponding RTCMDatum block for the interpretation of the height.Datumu1Reference frame to which the position relate. If the value is in the 20 to 24 range, the corresponding datum parameters can be found in the RTCMDatum block having a matching Datum ?eld.
Value 25 corresponds to the local coordinate reference system selected
with the setLocalCoordOperation command.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The BaseVectorCart block contains the relative position and orientation of one or more base stations, as seen from the rover (i.e. this receiver). The relative position is expressed in the Cartesian X, Y, Z directions.

For highest accuracy, the receiver tries to compute the baseline from rover antenna reference point (ARP) to base ARP. This requires to compensate for the phase center offset at both the base and the rover antennas. This is possible if two conditions are met:
• the base station must transmit its antenna parameters in RTCM2 message types 23 and 24 or in RTCM3 message types 1005/1006 and 1007/1008. Older RTCM2 messages and CMR do not allow phase center offset compensation.
• the base and rover antenna types must belong to the list returned by the command lstAntennaInfo, overview.	(see	the	description	of	the	commands setAntennaOffset and lstAntennaInfo for details).
Accurate ARP-to-ARP baseline is guaranteed only if both bits 0 and 1 of the Misc ?eld are set. Otherwise, centimeter-level offsets may arise because the receiver cannot make the distinction between phase center and ARP positions. See section 2.5 for a discussion on the phase center and ARP positions.

The block supports multi-base operation. It contains as many sub-blocks as available base stations, each sub-block containing the baseline relative to a single base station identi?ed by the ReferenceID ?eld.


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of baselines for which relative position, velocity and direction are provided in this SBF block, i.e. number of VectorInfoCart sub-blocks. If N is 0, there are no baseline available for this epoch.SBLengthu11 byteLength of one sub-blockVectorInfoCart......A succession of N VectorInfoCart sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

VectorInfoCart sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionnrSVu1Number of satellites for which corrections are available from the base station identi?ed by the ReferenceID ?eld.Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned: 0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK-?xed positionsModeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows: Bits 0-3: type of PVT solution:
0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5: Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of determining its ?xed position.
Bit 7:  2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Miscu1Bit ?eld containing miscellaneous ?ags:
Bit 0: Set if the baseline points to the base station ARP. Unset if it points to the antenna phase center, or if unknown.
Bit 1:  Set if the phase center offset is compensated for at the rover (i.e. the baseline starts from the antenna ARP), un- set if not or unknown.
Bit 2:  Proprietary.
Bit 3:	Proprietary.
Bits 4-5: Proprietary.
Bits 6-7: ReservedDeltaXf81 m-2 · 1010X baseline component (from rover to base)DeltaYf81 m-2 · 1010Y baseline component (from rover to base)DeltaZf81 m-2 · 1010Z baseline component (from rover to base)DeltaVxf41 m / s-2 · 1010X velocity of base with respect to roverDeltaVyf41 m / s-2 · 1010Y velocity of base with respect to roverDeltaVzf41 m / s-2 · 1010Z velocity of base with respect to roverAzimuthu20.01 degrees65535Azimuth of the base station (from 0 to 360?, increasing towards east)Elevationi20.01 degrees-32768Elevation of the base station (from -90? to 90?)ReferenceIDu2Base station ID



CorrAgeu20.01 s65535Age of the oldest differential correction used for this baseline com- putation.SignalInfou40Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS signals for which differential corrections are available from the base station identi?ed by ReferenceID. If bit i is set, corrections for the signal type having index i are available.  The signal numbers are listed in section
4.1.10. Bit 0 (GPS-C/A) is the LSB of SignalInfo.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The BaseVectorGeod block contains the relative position and orientation of one or more base stations, as seen from the rover (i.e. this receiver). The relative position is expressed in the East-North-Up directions.

For highest accuracy, the receiver tries to compute the baseline from rover antenna reference point (ARP) to base ARP. See the description of the BaseVectorCart block for details.

Accurate ARP-to-ARP baseline is guaranteed only if both bits 0 and 1 of the Misc ?eld are set. Otherwise, centimeter-level offsets may arise because the receiver cannot make the distinction between phase center and ARP positions. See section 2.5 for a discussion on the phase center and ARP positions.

The block supports multi-base operation. It contains as many sub-blocks as available base stations, each sub-block containing the baseline coordinates relative to a single base station identi?ed by the ReferenceID ?eld.


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of baselines for which relative position, velocity and direction are provided in this SBF block, i.e. number of VectorInfoGeod sub-blocks. If N is 0, there are no baseline available for this epoch.SBLengthu11 byteLength of one sub-blockVectorInfoGeod......A succession of N VectorInfoGeod sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
VectorInfoGeod sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionNrSVu1Number of satellites for which corrections are available from the base station identi?ed by the ReferenceID ?eld.Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned: 0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK-?xed positions



Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows: Bits 0-3: type of PVT solution:
0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5: Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of determining its ?xed position.
Bit 7:  2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Miscu1Bit ?eld containing miscellaneous ?ags:
Bit 0: Set if the baseline points to the base station ARP. Unset if it points to the antenna phase center, or if unknown.
Bit 1:  Set if the phase center offset is compensated for at the rover (i.e. the baseline starts from the antenna ARP), un- set if not or unknown.
Bit 2:  Proprietary.
Bit 3:	Proprietary.
Bits 4-5: Proprietary.
Bits 6-7: ReservedDeltaEastf81 m-2 · 1010East baseline component (from rover to base)DeltaNorthf81 m-2 · 1010North baseline component (from rover to base)DeltaUpf81 m-2 · 1010Up baseline component (from rover to base)DeltaVef41 m / s-2 · 1010East velocity of base with respect to roverDeltaVnf41 m / s-2 · 1010North velocity of base with respect to roverDeltaVuf41 m / s-2 · 1010Up velocity of base with respect to roverAzimuthu20.01 degrees65535Azimuth of the base station (from 0 to 360?, increasing towards east)Elevationi20.01 degrees-32768Elevation of the base station (from -90? to 90?)ReferenceIDu2Base station IDCorrAgeu20.01 s65535Age of the oldest differential correction used for this baseline com- putation.SignalInfou40Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS signals for which differential corrections are available from the base station identi?ed by ReferenceID. If bit i is set, corrections for the signal type having index i are available.  The signal numbers are listed in section
4.1.10. Bit 0 (GPS-C/A) is the LSB of SignalInfo.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains various internal parameters that can be used for maintenance and sup- port.
The detailed de?nition of this block is not available in this document.





This block contains various internal parameters that can be used for maintenance and sup- port.
The detailed de?nition of this block is not available in this document.





This block marks the end of transmission of all PVT related blocks belonging to the same epoch.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.10 GNSS Attitude Blocks


The AttEuler block contains the Euler angles (pitch, roll and heading) at the time speci?ed in the TOW and WNc ?elds (in the receiver time frame).

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535NrSVu1255The average over all antennas of the number of satellites currently included in the attitude calculations.Erroru1Bit ?eld providing error information. For each antenna baseline, two bits are used to provide error information:

Bits 0-1: Error code for Main-Aux1 baseline: 0:	No error
1:	Not enough measurements 2:	Reserved
3:	Reserved
Bits 2-3: Error code for Main-Aux2 baseline, same de?nition as bit 0-1. Bits 4-6: Reserved
Bit 7:	Set when GNSS-based attitude not requested by user. In that
case, the other bits are all zero.Modeu2Attitude mode code:
0:	No attitude
1:	Heading, pitch (roll = 0), aux antenna positions obtained with ?oat ambiguities
2:	Heading, pitch (roll = 0), aux antenna positions obtained with ?xed ambiguities
3:	Heading, pitch, roll, aux antenna positions obtained with ?oat ambiguities
4:	Heading, pitch, roll, aux antenna positions obtained with ?xed ambiguitiesReservedu2Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareHeadingf41 degree-2 · 1010HeadingPitchf41 degree-2 · 1010PitchRollf41 degree-2 · 1010RollPitchDotf41 degree / s-2 · 1010Rate of change of the pitch angleRollDotf41 degree / s-2 · 1010Rate of change of the roll angleHeadingDotf41 degree / s-2 · 1010Rate of change of the heading anglePaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the elements of the symmetric variance-covariance matrix of the attitude angles reported in the AttEuler block

?? s2

s??	s?? ??

??s??	s?

s?? ??

s??	s??	s2
This variance-covariance matrix contains an indication of the accuracy of the estimated parameters (see diagonal elements) and the correlation between these estimates (see off-diagonal elements).

In case the receiver is in heading and pitch mode only, only the heading and pitch variance values will be valid. All other components of the variance-covariance matrix are set to their Do-Not-Use value.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareErroru1Bit ?eld providing error information. For each antenna baseline, two bits are used to provide error information:

Bits 0-1: Error code for Main-Aux1 baseline: 0:	No error
1:	Not enough measurements 2:	Reserved
3:	Reserved
Bits 2-3: Error code for Main-Aux2 baseline, same de?nition as bit 0-1. Bits 4-6: Reserved
Bit 7:	Set when GNSS-based attitude not requested by user. In that
case, the other bits are all zero.Cov_HeadHeadf41 degree2-2 · 1010Variance of the heading estimateCov_PitchPitchf41 degree2-2 · 1010Variance of the pitch estimateCov_RollRollf41 degree2-2 · 1010Variance of the roll estimateCov_HeadPitchf41 degree2-2 · 1010Covariance between Euler angle estimates.
Future functionality. The values are currently set to their Do-Not-Use values.Cov_HeadRollf41 degree2-2 · 1010Covariance between Euler angle estimates.
Future functionality. The values are currently set to their Do-Not-Use values.Cov_PitchRollf41 degree2-2 · 1010Covariance between Euler angle estimates.
Future functionality. The values are currently set to their Do-Not-Use values.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The AuxAntPositions block contains the relative position and velocity of the different antennas in a multi-antenna receiver. The coordinates are expressed in the local-level ENU reference frame.

When the antenna positions cannot be estimated, the baseline vectors are set to their Do-Not-Use value.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of AuxAntPositionSub sub-blocks in this AuxAntPositions blockSBLengthu11 byteLength of one sub-block in bytesAuxAntPosition......A succession of N AuxAntPositionSub sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
AuxAntPositionSub sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionNrSVu1255Total number of satellites tracked by the antenna identi?ed by the
AuxAntID ?eld and used in the attitude computation.Erroru1Aux antenna position error code:
0:	No error
1:	Not enough measurements 2:	Reserved
3:	Reserved
If error is not 0, the coordinates reported later in this block are all set to their Do-Not-Use value.AmbiguityTypeu1255Aux antenna positions obtained with 0:	Fixed ambiguities
1:	Float ambiguitiesAuxAntIDu1Auxiliary antenna ID: 1 for the ?rst auxiliary antenna, 2 for the second, etc...DeltaEastf81 m-2 · 1010Position in East direction (relative to main antenna)DeltaNorthf81 m-2 · 1010Position in North direction (relative to main antenna)DeltaUpf81 m-2 · 1010Position in Up direction (relative to main antenna)EastVelf81 m / s-2 · 1010Velocity in East direction (relative to main antenna)NorthVelf81 m / s-2 · 1010Velocity in North direction (relative to main antenna)UpVelf81 m / s-2 · 1010Velocity in Up direction (relative to main antenna)Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block marks the end of transmission of all GNSS-attitude related blocks belonging to the same epoch.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.11 Receiver Time Blocks


The ReceiverTime block provides the current time with a 1-second resolution in the receiver time scale and UTC.

The level of synchronization of the receiver time with the satellite system time is pro- vided in the SyncLevel ?eld.

UTC time is provided if the UTC parameters have been received from at least one GNSS satellite. If the UTC time is not available, the corresponding ?elds are set to their Do-Not-Use value.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535UTCYeari11 year-128Current year in the UTC time scale (2 digits). From 0 to 99, or -128 if not availableUTCMonthi11 month-128Current month in the UTC time scale. From 1 to 12, or -128 if not avail- ableUTCDayi11 day-128Current day in the UTC time scale. From 1 to 31, or -128 if not availableUTCHouri11 hour-128Current hour in the UTC time scale. From 0 to 23, or -128 if not availableUTCMini11 minute-128Current minute in the UTC time scale. From 0 to 59, or -128 if not avail- ableUTCSeci11 s-128Current second in the UTC time scale. From 0 to 59, or -128 if not avail- ableDeltaLSi11 s-128Integer second difference between UTC time and GPS system time. Pos- itive if GPS time is ahead of UTC. Set to -128 if not available.SyncLevelu1Bit ?eld indicating the synchronization level of the receiver time. If bits 0 to 2 are set, full synchronization is achieved:
Bit 0:	WNSET: if this bit is set, the receiver week number is set.
Bit 1:	TOWSET: if this bit is set, the receiver time-of-week is set to within 20ms.
Bit 2:	FINETIME: if this bit is set, the receiver time-of-week is within the limit speci?ed by the setClockSyncThreshold command.
Bit 3:	Reserved
Bit 4:	Reserved
Bits 5-7: ReservedPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The xPPSOffset block contains the offset between the true xPPS pulse and the actual pulse output by the receiver. It is output right after each xPPS pulse.

On receivers with more than one independent PPS outputs, this block always refers to the ?rst PPS output.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SyncAgeu11 sAge of the last synchronization to system time. The xPPS pulse is regu- larly resynchronized with system time. This ?eld indicates the number of seconds elapsed since the last resynchronization.
SyncAge is constrained to the 0-255s range. If the age is higher than 255s, SyncAge is set to 255.
If the PPS is synchronized with the internal receiver time (Timescale
= 3), SyncAge is always set to 0.TimeScaleu1Time scale to which the xPPS pulse is referenced, as set with the
setPPSParameters command: 1:	GPS time
2:	UTC time
3:	Receiver time
4:	GLONASS time
5:	Galileo time
6:	BeiDou time
100: Fugro AtomiChron timeOffsetf41 · 10-9 sOffset of the xPPS output by the receiver with respect to its true posi- tion. Offset is negative when the xPPS pulse is in advance with respect to its true position. See also section 1.19 for an explanation of the xPPS generation principle, and for a description of the xPPS offset.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.12 External Event Blocks
These blocks report the state of the receiver applicable at the instant of a level tran- sition on one of its "Event" pins. The receiver time is reported in the ExtEvent SBF block, and the receiver position is reported in the ExtEventPVTCartesian and the ExtEventPVTGeodetic blocks.
If enabled, upon detection of an event, these three blocks are output in the following order, with no other SBF blocks in between them:
1. ExtEvent;
2. ExtEventPVTCartesian;
3. ExtEventPVTGeodetic.
All blocks referring to the same event contain the same time stamp in the TOW and WNc ?elds.








































Rev 1

The ExtEvent block contains the time tag of a voltage transition on one of the "Event" input pins.





This block contains the position, velocity and time (PVT) solution applicable at the time of an external event, in a Cartesian coordinate system.

This block has the same structure and description as the PVTCartesian block, ex- cept that the TOW and WNc ?elds refer to the time at which the electrical transition on the event pin has been detected (with a millisecond resolution), and that the position is computed at the event time, taking into account a possible user-de?ned delay set by the setEventParameters command.

A user needing the sub-millisecond part of the event time must refer to the Offset ?eld of the corresponding ExtEvent block. The corresponding ExtEvent block is the last of the ExtEvent blocks having been output by the receiver.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295External time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows: Bits 0-3:  type of PVT solution:
0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5:  Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of determining its ?xed position.
Bit 7:   2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned:
0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK- ?xed positions



Xf81 m-2 · 1010X coordinate in coordinate frame speci?ed by DatumYf81 m-2 · 1010Y coordinate in coordinate frame speci?ed by DatumZf81 m-2 · 1010Z coordinate in coordinate frame speci?ed by DatumUndulationf41 m-2 · 1010Geoid undulation. See the setGeoidUndulation command.Vxf41 m / s-2 · 1010Not applicableVyf41 m / s-2 · 1010Not applicableVzf41 m / s-2 · 1010Not applicableCOGf41 degree-2 · 1010Course over ground: this is de?ned as the angle of the vehicle with re- spect to the local level North, ranging from 0 to 360, and increasing to- wards east. Set to the Do-Not-Use value when the speed is lower than 0.1m/s.RxClkBiasf81 ms-2 · 1010Receiver clock bias relative to the system time reported in the TimeSystem ?eld. Positive when the receiver time is ahead of the sys- tem time. To transfer the receiver time to the system time, use:
tsys = trx - RxClkBiasRxClkDriftf41 ppm-2 · 1010Receiver clock drift relative to the GNSS system time (relative frequency error). Positive when the receiver clock runs faster than the system time.TimeSystemu1255Time system to which the offset is provided in this sub-block: 0:	GPS time
1:	Galileo time
3:	GLONASS time
4:	BeiDou time
5:	QZSS time
100: Fugro AtomiChron timeDatumu1255This ?eld de?nes in which datum the coordinates are expressed: 0:	WGS84/ITRS
19:	Datum equal to that used by the DGNSS/RTK base station 30:	ETRS89 (ETRF2000 realization)
31:	NAD83(2011), North American Datum (2011)
32:	NAD83(PA11), North American Datum, Paci?c plate (2011)
33:	NAD83(MA11), North American Datum, Marianas plate (2011) 34:	GDA94(2010), Geocentric Datum of Australia (2010)
35:	GDA2020, Geocentric Datum of Australia 2020 36:	JGD2011, Japanese Geodetic Datum 2011
250: First user-de?ned datum
251: Second user-de?ned datumNrSVu1255Total number of satellites used in the PVT computation.WACorrInfou10Bit ?eld providing information about which corrections have been ap- plied:
Bit 0:	set if orbit and satellite clock correction information is used Bit 1:	set if range correction information is used
Bit 2:	set if ionospheric information is used
Bit 3:	set if orbit accuracy information is used (UERE/SISA) Bit 4:	set if DO229 Precision Approach mode is active
Bits 5-6:	Type of RTK or DGNSS differential corrections:

0:	unknown or not in differential positioning mode (DGNSS or RTK)
1:	corrections from a physical base
2:	corrections from a virtual base (VRS)
3:	SSR corrections (RTK using SSR corrections is often referred to as RTK-SSR or PPP-RTK)
Bit 7:	ReservedReferenceIDu265535This ?eld indicates the reference ID of the differential information used. In case of DGNSS or RTK operation, this ?eld is to be interpreted as the base station identi?er. In SBAS operation, this ?eld is to be interpreted as the PRN of the geostationary satellite used (from 120 to 158). If multi- ple base stations or multiple geostationary satellites are used the value is set to 65534.



MeanCorrAgeu20.01 s65535In case of DGNSS or RTK, this ?eld is the mean age of the differential corrections.
In case of SBAS operation, this ?eld is the mean age of the 'fast correc- tions' provided by the SBAS satellites.
In case of PPP, this is the age of the last received clock or orbit correction message.SignalInfou40Bit ?eld indicating the type of GNSS signals having been used in the PVT computations. If a bit i is set, the signal type having index i has been used. The signal numbers are listed in section 4.1.10. Bit 0 (GPS-C/A) is the LSB of SignalInfo.AlertFlagu10Bit ?eld indicating integrity related information:
Bits 0-1:	RAIM integrity ?ag:
0:	RAIM not active (integrity not monitored) 1:	RAIM integrity test successful
2:	RAIM integrity test failed 3:	Reserved

Bit 2:	set if integrity has failed as per Galileo HPCA (HMI Probability Computation Algorithm)
Bit 3:	set if Galileo ionospheric storm ?ag is active Bit 4:	Reserved
Bits 5-7:	ReservedNrBasesu10Number of base stations used in the PVT computation.PPPInfou2
1 s0Bit ?eld containing PPP-related information:
Bits 0-11: Age of the last seed, in seconds. The age is clipped to 4091s. This ?eld must be ignored when the seed type is 0 (see bits 13-15 below).
Bit 12:   Reserved
Bits 13-15: Type of last seed:

0:	Not seeded or not in PPP positioning mode 1:	Manual seed
2:	Seeded from DGNSS
3:	Seeded from RTKFixedLatencyu20.0001 s65535Time elapsed between the time of applicability of the position ?x and the generation of this SBF block by the receiver. This time includes the receiver processing time, but not the communication latency.HAccuracyu20.01 m655352DRMS horizontal accuracy: twice the root-mean-square of the horizon- tal distance error. The horizontal distance between the true position and the computed position is expected to be lower than HAccuracy with a probability of at least 95%.  The value is clipped to 65534
=655.34mVAccuracyu20.01 m655352-sigma vertical accuracy. The vertical distance between the true position and the computed position is expected to be lower than VAccuracy with a probability of at least 95%. The value is clipped to 65534 =655.34m.Miscu1Bit ?eld containing miscellaneous ?ags:
Bit 0:  In DGNSS or RTK mode, set if the baseline points to the base station ARP. Unset if it points to the antenna phase center, or if unknown.
Bit 1:  Set if the phase center offset is compensated for at the rover, unset if not or unknown.
Bit 2:   Proprietary.
Bit 3:   Proprietary.
Bits 4-5:  Proprietary.
Bits 6-7: Flag indicating whether the marker position reported in this block is also the ARP position (i.e. whether the ARP-to- marker offset provided with the setAntennaOffset com- mand is zero or not)
0:	Unknown
1:	The ARP-to-marker offset is zero
2:	The ARP-to-marker offset is not zeroPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the position, velocity and time (PVT) solution applicable at the time of an external event, in an ellipsoidal coordinate system.

This block has the same structure and description as the PVTGeodetic block, except that the TOW and WNc ?elds refer to the time at which the electrical transition on the event pin has been detected (with a millisecond resolution), and that the position is computed at the event time, taking into account a possible user-de?ned delay set by the setEventParameters command.

A user needing the sub-millisecond part of the event time must refer to the Offset ?eld of the corresponding ExtEvent block. The corresponding ExtEvent block is the last of the ExtEvent blocks having been output by the receiver.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295External time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows: Bits 0-3:  type of PVT solution:
0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5:  Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of determining its ?xed position.
Bit 7:   2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned:
0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK- ?xed positions



Latitudef81 rad-2 · 1010Latitude, from -p/2 to +p/2, positive North of EquatorLongitudef81 rad-2 · 1010Longitude, from -p to +p, positive East of GreenwichHeightf81 m-2 · 1010Ellipsoidal height (with respect to the ellipsoid speci?ed by Datum)Undulationf41 m-2 · 1010Geoid undulation. See the setGeoidUndulation command.Vnf41 m / s-2 · 1010Not applicableVef41 m / s-2 · 1010Not applicableVuf41 m / s-2 · 1010Not applicableCOGf41 degree-2 · 1010Course over ground: this is de?ned as the angle of the vehicle with re- spect to the local level North, ranging from 0 to 360, and increasing to- wards east. Set to the Do-Not-Use value when the speed is lower than 0.1m/s.RxClkBiasf81 ms-2 · 1010Receiver clock bias relative to the system time reported in the TimeSystem ?eld. Positive when the receiver time is ahead of the sys- tem time. To transfer the receiver time to the system time, use:
tsys = trx - RxClkBiasRxClkDriftf41 ppm-2 · 1010Receiver clock drift relative to the GNSS system time (relative frequency error). Positive when the receiver clock runs faster than the system time.TimeSystemu1255Time system to which the offset is provided in this sub-block: 0:	GPS time
1:	Galileo time
3:	GLONASS time
4:	BeiDou time
5:	QZSS time
100: Fugro AtomiChron timeDatumu1255This ?eld de?nes in which datum the coordinates are expressed: 0:	WGS84/ITRS
19:	Datum equal to that used by the DGNSS/RTK base station 30:	ETRS89 (ETRF2000 realization)
31:	NAD83(2011), North American Datum (2011)
32:	NAD83(PA11), North American Datum, Paci?c plate (2011)
33:	NAD83(MA11), North American Datum, Marianas plate (2011) 34:	GDA94(2010), Geocentric Datum of Australia (2010)
35:	GDA2020, Geocentric Datum of Australia 2020 36:	JGD2011, Japanese Geodetic Datum 2011
250: First user-de?ned datum
251: Second user-de?ned datumNrSVu1255Total number of satellites used in the PVT computation.WACorrInfou10Bit ?eld providing information about which corrections have been ap- plied:
Bit 0:	set if orbit and satellite clock correction information is used Bit 1:	set if range correction information is used
Bit 2:	set if ionospheric information is used
Bit 3:	set if orbit accuracy information is used (UERE/SISA) Bit 4:	set if DO229 Precision Approach mode is active
Bits 5-6:	Type of RTK or DGNSS differential corrections:

0:	unknown or not in differential positioning mode (DGNSS or RTK)
1:	corrections from a physical base
2:	corrections from a virtual base (VRS)
3:	SSR corrections (RTK using SSR corrections is often referred to as RTK-SSR or PPP-RTK)
Bit 7:	ReservedReferenceIDu265535This ?eld indicates the reference ID of the differential information used. In case of DGNSS or RTK operation, this ?eld is to be interpreted as the base station identi?er. In SBAS operation, this ?eld is to be interpreted as the PRN of the geostationary satellite used (from 120 to 158). If multi- ple base stations or multiple geostationary satellites are used the value is set to 65534.



MeanCorrAgeu20.01 s65535In case of DGNSS or RTK, this ?eld is the mean age of the differential corrections.
In case of SBAS operation, this ?eld is the mean age of the 'fast correc- tions' provided by the SBAS satellites.
In case of PPP, this is the age of the last received clock or orbit correction message.SignalInfou40Bit ?eld indicating the type of GNSS signals having been used in the PVT computations. If a bit i is set, the signal type having index i has been used. The signal numbers are listed in section 4.1.10. Bit 0 (GPS-C/A) is the LSB of SignalInfo.AlertFlagu10Bit ?eld indicating integrity related information:
Bits 0-1:	RAIM integrity ?ag:
0:	RAIM not active (integrity not monitored) 1:	RAIM integrity test successful
2:	RAIM integrity test failed 3:	Reserved

Bit 2:	set if integrity has failed as per Galileo HPCA (HMI Probability Computation Algorithm)
Bit 3:	set if Galileo ionospheric storm ?ag is active Bit 4:	Reserved
Bits 5-7:	ReservedNrBasesu10Number of base stations used in the PVT computation.PPPInfou2
1 s0Bit ?eld containing PPP-related information:
Bits 0-11: Age of the last seed, in seconds. The age is clipped to 4091s. This ?eld must be ignored when the seed type is 0 (see bits 13-15 below).
Bit 12:   Reserved
Bits 13-15: Type of last seed:

0:	Not seeded or not in PPP positioning mode 1:	Manual seed
2:	Seeded from DGNSS
3:	Seeded from RTKFixedLatencyu20.0001 s65535Time elapsed between the time of applicability of the position ?x and the generation of this SBF block by the receiver. This time includes the receiver processing time, but not the communication latency.HAccuracyu20.01 m655352DRMS horizontal accuracy: twice the root-mean-square of the horizon- tal distance error. The horizontal distance between the true position and the computed position is expected to be lower than HAccuracy with a probability of at least 95%.  The value is clipped to 65534
=655.34mVAccuracyu20.01 m655352-sigma vertical accuracy. The vertical distance between the true position and the computed position is expected to be lower than VAccuracy with a probability of at least 95%. The value is clipped to 65534 =655.34m.Miscu1Bit ?eld containing miscellaneous ?ags:
Bit 0:  In DGNSS or RTK mode, set if the baseline points to the base station ARP. Unset if it points to the antenna phase center, or if unknown.
Bit 1:  Set if the phase center offset is compensated for at the rover, unset if not or unknown.
Bit 2:   Proprietary.
Bit 3:   Proprietary.
Bits 4-5:  Proprietary.
Bits 6-7: Flag indicating whether the marker position reported in this block is also the ARP position (i.e. whether the ARP-to- marker offset provided with the setAntennaOffset com- mand is zero or not)
0:	Unknown
1:	The ARP-to-marker offset is zero
2:	The ARP-to-marker offset is not zeroPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the relative position and orientation of one or more base stations at the time of an external event. The relative position is expressed in the East-North-Up directions.

This block has the same structure and description as the BaseVectorGeod block, ex- cept that the TOW and WNc ?elds refer to the time at which the electrical transition on the event pin has been detected (with a millisecond resolution), and that the position is computed at the event time, taking into account a possible user-de?ned delay set by the setEventParameters command.

A user needing the sub-millisecond part of the event time must refer to the Offset ?eld of the corresponding ExtEvent block. The corresponding ExtEvent block is the last of the ExtEvent blocks having been output by the receiver.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295External time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of baselines for which relative position, velocity and direction are provided in this SBF block, i.e. number of ExtEventVectorInfoGeod sub-blocks. If N is 0, there are no baseline available for this epoch.SBLengthu11 byteLength of one sub-blockExtEventVectorInfoGeod......A succession of N ExtEventVectorInfoGeod sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

ExtEventVectorInfoGeod sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionNrSVu1Number of satellites for which corrections are available from the base station identi?ed by the ReferenceID ?eld.Erroru1PVT error code. The following values are de?ned: 0:	No Error
1:	Not enough measurements
2:	Not enough ephemerides available 3:	DOP too large (larger than 15)
4:	Sum of squared residuals too large 5:	No convergence
6:	Not enough measurements after outlier rejection 7:	Position output prohibited due to export laws
8:	Not enough differential corrections available 9:	Base station coordinates unavailable
10:	Ambiguities not ?xed and user requested to only output RTK-?xed positionsModeu1Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS PVT mode, as follows: Bits 0-3: type of PVT solution:
0:	No GNSS PVT available (the Error ?eld indicates the cause of the absence of the PVT solution)
1:   Stand-Alone PVT
2:   Differential PVT
3:   Fixed location
4:  RTK with ?xed ambiguities 5:  RTK with ?oat ambiguities 6:  SBAS aided PVT
7:  moving-base RTK with ?xed ambiguities 8:  moving-base RTK with ?oat ambiguities 9:  Reserved
10: Precise Point Positioning (PPP) 12:  Reserved
Bits 4-5: Reserved
Bit 6: Set if the user has entered the command setPVTMode, Static, , auto and the receiver is still in the process of determining its ?xed position.
Bit 7:  2D/3D ?ag: set in 2D mode (height assumed constant and not computed).Miscu1Bit ?eld containing miscellaneous ?ags:
Bit 0: Set if the baseline points to the base station ARP. Unset if it points to the antenna phase center, or if unknown.
Bit 1:  Set if the phase center offset is compensated for at the rover (i.e. the baseline starts from the antenna ARP), un- set if not or unknown.
Bit 2:  Proprietary.
Bit 3:	Proprietary.
Bits 4-5: Proprietary.
Bits 6-7: ReservedDeltaEastf81 m-2 · 1010East baseline component (from rover to base)DeltaNorthf81 m-2 · 1010North baseline component (from rover to base)DeltaUpf81 m-2 · 1010Up baseline component (from rover to base)DeltaVef41 m / s-2 · 1010East velocity of base with respect to roverDeltaVnf41 m / s-2 · 1010North velocity of base with respect to roverDeltaVuf41 m / s-2 · 1010Up velocity of base with respect to roverAzimuthu20.01 degrees65535Azimuth of the base station (from 0 to 360?, increasing towards east)Elevationi20.01 degrees-32768Elevation of the base station (from -90? to 90?)ReferenceIDu2Base station ID



CorrAgeu20.01 s65535Age of the oldest differential correction used for this baseline com- putation.SignalInfou40Bit ?eld indicating the GNSS signals for which differential corrections are available from the base station identi?ed by ReferenceID. If bit i is set, corrections for the signal type having index i are available.  The signal numbers are listed in section
4.1.10. Bit 0 (GPS-C/A) is the LSB of SignalInfo.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the Euler angles (pitch, roll and heading) applicable at the time of an external event.

This block has the same structure and description as the AttEuler block, except that the TOW and WNc ?elds refer to the time at which the electrical transition on the event pin has been detected (with a millisecond resolution), and that the position is computed at the event time, taking into account a possible user-de?ned delay set by the setEventParameters command.

A user needing the sub-millisecond part of the event time must refer to the Offset ?eld of the corresponding ExtEvent block. The corresponding ExtEvent block is the last of the ExtEvent blocks having been output by the receiver.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295External time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535NrSVu1255The average over all antennas of the number of satellites currently included in the attitude calculations.Erroru1Bit ?eld providing error information. For each antenna baseline, two bits are used to provide error information:

Bits 0-1: Error code for Main-Aux1 baseline: 0:	No error
1:	Not enough measurements 2:	Reserved
3:	Reserved
Bits 2-3: Error code for Main-Aux2 baseline, same de?nition as bit 0-1. Bits 4-6: Reserved
Bit 7:	Set when GNSS-based attitude not requested by user. In that
case, the other bits are all zero.Modeu2Attitude mode code:
0:	No attitude
1:	Heading, pitch (roll = 0), aux antenna positions obtained with ?oat ambiguities
2:	Heading, pitch (roll = 0), aux antenna positions obtained with ?xed ambiguities
3:	Heading, pitch, roll, aux antenna positions obtained with ?oat ambiguities
4:	Heading, pitch, roll, aux antenna positions obtained with ?xed ambiguitiesReservedu2Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareHeadingf41 degree-2 · 1010HeadingPitchf41 degree-2 · 1010PitchRollf41 degree-2 · 1010RollPitchDotf41 degree / s-2 · 1010Not applicableRollDotf41 degree / s-2 · 1010Not applicableHeadingDotf41 degree / s-2 · 1010Not applicablePaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.13 Differential Correction Blocks


The DiffCorrIn block contains incoming RTCM or CMR messages. The length of the block depends on the message type and contents.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu10:
1:
2:
3:
4:
5:RTCMv2 CMRv2 RTCMv3
RTCMV (a proprietary variant of RTCM2) SPARTN
ReservedSourceu1255Indicates the receiver connection from which the message has been re- ceived:
0:	COM1
1:	COM2
2:	COM3
3:	COM4
4:	USB1
5:	USB2
6:   IP connection
7:	SBF ?le
8:	L-Band (message decoded by the built-in L-band demodulator) 9:	NTRIP
10:	OTG1
11:	OTG2
12:  Bluetooth
15:  UHF modem
16: IPR connection 17: Direct call port 18:  IPS connection
19:  SSR2OBS (message generated internally by SSR2OBS conversion)If the Mode ?eld is 0 then this ?eld is available:RTCM2Wordsu4[N]30-bit words of the RTCM2 message. The Data Word Length (number of 32 bit words) is variable and depends on the RTCM2 message contents. It can be computed by the following piece of C code:
N = 2 + ((RTCM2Words[1]"9) & 0x1f);

N can range from 2 to 33. The ?rst two words are the RTCM2 mes- sage header and they are always present.

Each of the words is organized as follows:
Bits 0-5: 6 parity bits. They are provided for the sake of completeness. Parity doesn't need to be checked, since the DiffCorrIn block only contains valid words.
Bits 6-29: 24 information-containing bits of the word. The ?rst received bit is the MSB.
Bits 30-31: bit 0 and 1 of the preceding wordIf the Mode ?eld is 1 then this ?eld is available:CMRMessageu1[N]N depends on the CMR message type.



If the Mode ?eld is 2 then this ?eld is available:RTCM3Message	u1[N]N depends on the RTCM 3 message type.If the Mode ?eld is 3 then this ?eld is available:RTCMVMessage	u1[N]N depends on the RTCMV message type.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The BaseStation block contains the ECEF coordinates of the base station the receiver is currently connected to. This block helps users accessing the base station coordinates via SBF instead of having to decode the speci?c differential correction message (see the DiffCorrIn SBF block above).

The interpretation to give to the X, Y, Z ECEF coordinates is dependent on the value of the Source ?eld:

Value of Source Interpretation of X, Y, Z0, 4 or 10Coordinate of the L1 phase center2 or 8Antenna reference point9Proprietary

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535BaseStationIDu2The base station IDBaseTypeu1Base station type:
0: Fixed
1: Moving (reserved for future use) 255: UnknownSourceu1Source of the base station coordinates: 0:	RTCM 2.x (Msg 3)
2:	RTCM 2.x (Msg 24)
4:	CMR 2.x (Msg 1)
8:	RTCM 3.x (Msg 1005 or 1006)
9:	RTCMV (Msg 3)
10:	CMR+ (Type 2)Datumu1255This ?eld de?nes in which datum the coordinates are expressed: 0:	WGS84/ITRS
19:	Datum equal to that used by the DGNSS/RTK base station 30:	ETRS89 (ETRF2000 realization)
31:	NAD83(2011), North American Datum (2011)
32:	NAD83(PA11), North American Datum, Paci?c plate (2011)
33:	NAD83(MA11), North American Datum, Marianas plate (2011) 34:	GDA94(2010), Geocentric Datum of Australia (2010)
35:	GDA2020, Geocentric Datum of Australia 2020 36:	JGD2011, Japanese Geodetic Datum 2011
250: First user-de?ned datum
251: Second user-de?ned datumReservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareXf81 mAntenna X coordinate expressed in the datum speci?ed by the Datum
?eldYf81 mAntenna Y coordinateZf81 mAntenna Z coordinatePaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block reports the source and target datum names as transmitted in RTCM 3.x message types 1021 or 1022. It also reports the corresponding height and quality indicators.

If a service provider only sends out message types 1021 or 1022, this block is trans- mitted immediately after reception of MT1021 or MT1022. If message types 1023 or 1024 are also sent out, this block is transmitted after the reception of these messages and the QualityInd ?eld is set accordingly.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535SourceCRSc1[32]Name of the source Coordinate Reference System, right-padded with ze- ros.TargetCRSc1[32]Name of the target Coordinate Reference System, right-padded with ze- ros.Datumu1See the Datum ?eld in the PosLocal and PosProjected SBF blocks.

Datum is set to 255 if this SourceCRS/TargetCRS pair is currently not used by the receiver.HeightTypeu1Height Indicator ?eld from MT1021 and MT1022. This ?eld indi- cates how to interpret the height reported in the PosLocal and the PosProjected SBF blocks:
0:   Geometrical height
1:  Physical height (height de?nition in target CRS) 2:   Physical height (height de?nition in source CRS)QualityIndu1Bit ?eld indicating the maximum approximation error after applying the transformation:
Bits 0-3: horizontal quality indicator: 0:	Unknown quality
1:	Quality better than 21 mm (from MT1021/1022) 2:	Quality 21 to 50 mm (from MT1021/1022)
3:	Quality 51 to 200 mm (from MT1021/1022)
4:	Quality 201 to 500 mm (from MT1021/1022)
5:	Quality 501 to 2000 mm (from MT1021/1022)
6:	Quality 2001 to 5000 mm (from MT1021/1022)
7:	Quality worse than 5001 mm (from MT1021/1022) 9:	Quality 0 to 10 mm (from MT1023/1024)
10:	Quality 11 to 20 mm (from MT1023/1024)
11:	Quality 21 to 50 mm (from MT1023/1024)
12:	Quality 51 to 100 mm (from MT1023/1024)
13:	Quality 101 to 200 mm (from MT1023/1024)
14:	Quality 201 to 500 mm (from MT1023/1024)
15:	Quality worse than 501 mm (from MT1023/1024)
Bits 4-7: vertical quality indicator, same de?nition as bits 0-3.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.14 Status Blocks


This block describes the current satellite allocation and tracking status of the active receiver channels. Active channels are channels to which a satellite has been allocated.

This block uses a two-level sub-block structure analogous to that of the MeasEpoch block. For each active channel, a ChannelSatInfo sub-block contains all satellite-dependent information such as health, azimuth and elevation. Each of these sub-blocks contains N2 ChannelStateInfo sub-blocks, N2 being the number of active antennas in a given channel (for single-antenna receivers, N2 is one). The ChannelStateInfo reports information such as the tracking status and PVT usage of a given signal type tracked on a given antenna.

Inactive channels are not contained in the ChannelStatus block.

Health, tracking and PVT status ?elds are available for each satellite. These status ?elds consist of a sequence of up to 8 two-bit ?elds. Each 2-bit ?eld contains the status of one of the signals transmitted by the satellite. The position of the 2 bits corresponding to a given signal is dependent on the constellation, but is otherwise ?xed. It is indicated in the tables below.

GPS:
ReservedReservedL1CL5L2CP2(Y)P1(Y)L1CA1514131211109876543210GLONASS:
ReservedReservedReservedL3L2CAL2PL1PL1CA1514131211109876543210Galileo:
ReservedE5abE5bE5aE6BCReservedL1BCReserved1514131211109876543210SBAS:
ReservedReservedReservedReservedReservedReservedL5L11514131211109876543210BeiDou:
ReservedReservedB2bB2aB1CB3IB2IB1I1514131211109876543210QZSS:
L5SL1CBL1SL1CL6L5L2CL1CA1514131211109876543210NavIC/IRNSS:



ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of channels for which status are provided in this SBF block, i.e. number of ChannelSatInfo sub-blocks. If N is 0, there are no active channels available for this epoch.SB1Lengthu11 byteLength  of  a  ChannelSatInfo sub-block,  excluding  the  nested
ChannelStateInfo sub-blocksSB2Lengthu11 byteLength of a ChannelStateInfo sub-blockReservedu1[3]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareSatInfo......A succession of N ChannelSatInfo sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
ChannelSatInfo sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSVIDu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9FreqNru10For GLONASS FDMA signals, this is the frequency number, with an off- set of 8. It ranges from 1 (corresponding to an actual frequency num- ber of -7) to 21 (corresponding to an actual frequency number of 13). Otherwise, FreqNr is reserved and must be ignored by the decoding software.Reserved1u1[2]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareAzimuth/RiseSetu2
1 degree
511


3bit ?eld:
Bits 0-8:	Azimuth [0,359]. 0 is North, and Azimuth increases towards East.
Bits 9-13: Reserved
Bits 14-15: Rise/Set Indicator:

0:	Satellite setting
1:	Satellite rising
3:	Elevation rate unknownHealthStatusu2Sequence of 2-bit health status ?elds, each of them taking one of the following values:
0 : health unknown, or not applicable
1 : healthy
3 : unhealthy

The 2-bit health status is a condensed version of the health status as sent by the satellite. For SBAS, the health status is set from the almanac data (MT17).Elevationi11 degree-128Elevation [-90,90] relative to local horizontal planeN2u1Number of ChannelStateInfo blocks following this ChannelSatInfo block. There is one ChannelStateInfo sub- block per antenna.RxChannelu1Channel number, see section 4.1.11.Reserved2u1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding software.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5StateInfo......A succession of N2 ChannelStateInfo sub-blocks, see de?nition below

ChannelStateInfo sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDescriptionAntennau1Antenna number (0 for main antenna)Reservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding softwareTrackingStatusu2Sequence of 2-bit tracking status ?elds, each of them taking one of the following values: 0: idle or not applicable
1: Search
2: Sync
3: TrackingPVTStatusu2Sequence of 2-bit PVT status ?elds, each of them taking one of the following values: 0: not used
1: waiting for ephemeris 2: used
3: rejectedPVTInfou2Internal infoPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The ReceiverStatus block provides general information on the status of the re- ceiver.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535CPULoadu11 %255Load on the receiver's CPU. The load should stay below 80% in normal operation. Higher loads might result in data loss.ExtErroru1Bit ?eld reporting external errors, i.e. errors detected in external data. Upon detection of an error, the corresponding bit is set for a duration of one second, and then resets.

Bit 0:  SISERROR: set if a violation of the signal-in-space ICD has been detected for at least one satellite while that satellite is reported as healthy. Use the command "lif,SisError" for details.
Bit 1:  DIFFCORRERROR: set when an anomaly has been detected in an incoming differential correction stream, causing the re- ceiver to fail to decode the corrections. Use the command "lif,DiffCorrError" for details.
Bit 2:  EXTSENSORERROR: set when a malfunction has been detected on at least one of the external sensors connected to the re- ceiver. Use the command "lif, ExtSensorError" for de- tails.
Bit 3:  SETUPERROR: set when a con?guration/setup error has been detected. An example of such error is when a remote NTRIP Caster is not reachable. Use the command "lif, SetupError" for details.
Bits 4-7:  ReservedUpTimeu41 sNumber of seconds elapsed since the start-up of the receiver, or since the last reset.



RxStateu4Bit ?eld indicating the status of key components of the receiver: Bit 0:	Reserved
Bit 1:	ACTIVEANTENNA: this bit is set when an active GNSS antenna
is sensed, i.e. when current is drawn from the antenna con- nector.
Bit 2:  EXT_FREQ: this bit is set if an external frequency reference is detected at the 10 MHz input, and cleared if the receiver uses its own internal clock.
Bit 3:  EXT_TIME: this bit is set if a pulse has been detected on the TimeSync input.
Bit 4:   WNSET: see corresponding bit in the SyncLevel ?eld of the
ReceiverTime block.
Bit 5:   TOWSET: see corresponding bit in the SyncLevel ?eld of the
ReceiverTime block.
Bit 6:   FINETIME: see corresponding bit in the SyncLevel ?eld of the
ReceiverTime block.
Bit 7:  INTERNALDISK_ACTIVITY: this bit is set for one second each time data is logged to the internal disk (DSK1). If the logging rate is larger than 1 Hz, set continuously.
Bit 8:  INTERNALDISK_FULL: this bit is set when the internal disk (DSK1) is full. A disk is full when it is ?lled to 95% of its total capacity.
Bit 9:  INTERNALDISK_MOUNTED: this bit is set when the internal disk (DSK1) is mounted.
Bit 10:  INT_ANT: this bit is set when the GNSS RF signal is taken from the internal antenna input, and cleared when it comes from the external antenna input (only applicable on receiver models featuring an internal antenna input).
Bit 11:  REFOUT_LOCKED: if set, the 10-MHz frequency provided at the REF OUT connector is locked to GNSS time. Otherwise it is free- running.
Bit 12:   Reserved
Bit 13: EXTERNALDISK_ACTIVITY: this bit is set for one second each time data is logged to the external disk (DSK2). If the logging rate is larger than 1 Hz, set continuously.
Bit 14: EXTERNALDISK_FULL: this bit is set when the external disk (DSK2) is full. A disk is full when it is ?lled to 95% of its total capacity.
Bit 15:  EXTERNALDISK_MOUNTED: this bit is set when the external disk (DSK2) is mounted.
Bit 16:  PPS_IN_CAL: this bit is set when PPS IN delay calibration is on- going. Only applicable to PolaRx5TR receivers.
Bit 17: DIFFCORR_IN: this bit is set for one second each time differen- tial corrections are decoded. If the input rate is larger than 1 Hz, set continuously.
Bit 18:  INTERNET: this bit is set when the receiver has Internet access. If not set, there is either no Internet access, or the receiver could not reliably determine the status.
Bits 19-31: Reserved























Rev 1


AGCState sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionFrontEndIDu1Bit ?eld indicating the frontend code and antenna ID:Bits 0-4: frontend code:0:	GPSL1/E11:	GLOL12:	E63:	GPSL24:	GLOL25:	L5/E5a/B2a6:	E5b/B2b7:	E5(a+b)8:	Combined GPS/GLONASS/SBAS/Galileo L19:	Combined GPS/GLONASS L210:	MSS/L-band11:	B112:	B313:	S-band14:	Combined BeiDou B3 and Galileo E6Bits 5-7: Antenna ID: 0 for main, 1 for Aux1 and 2 for Aux2Gaini11 dB-128AGC gain, in dB.

The Do-Not-Use value is used to indicate that the frontend PLL is not locked.SampleVaru10Normalized variance of the IF samples. The nominal value for this variance is 100.BlankingStatu11 %Current percentage of samples being blanked by the pulse blanking unit. This ?eld is always 0 for receiver without pulse blanking unit.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block contains the azimuth and elevation of all the satellites above the horizon for which the ephemeris or almanac is available.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of satellites for which information is provided in this SBF block,
i.e. number of SatInfo sub-blocks.SBLengthu11 byteLength of one SatInfo sub-blockSatInfo......A succession of N SatInfo sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
SatInfo sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSVIDu1Satellite ID, see 4.1.9FreqNru10For GLONASS FDMA signals, this is the frequency number, with an offset of 8. It ranges from 1 (corresponding to an actual frequency number of -7) to 21 (corresponding to an actual frequency number of 13). Otherwise, FreqNr is reserved and must be ignored by the decoding software.Azimuthu20.01 degrees65535Azimuth. 0 is North, and azimuth increases towards East.Elevationi20.01 degrees-32768Elevation relative to local horizontal plane.RiseSetu1Rise/set indicator:
0:	satellite setting
1:	satellite rising
255:  elevation rate unknownSatelliteInfou1Satellite visibility info based on: 1:	almanac
2:	ephemeris
255: unknownPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The InputLink block reports statistics of the number of bytes and messages received and accepted on each active connection descriptor.

Per connection descriptor, the receiver maintains two byte counters (NrBytesReceived and NrBytesAccepted) and two message counters (NrMsgReceived and NrMsgAccepted), which are reported in the sub-blocks. These counters provide use- ful information on the quality of the transmission link, and of the bandwidth e?ciency.

These counters (as well as the age of the last message) are reset simultaneously on the following events:
• start-up of the receiver
• over?ow of one of the counters
• change of input type
• deactivation of a connection descriptor, e.g. on disconnection of USB or IP ports.

There is one sub-block per connection descriptor for which statistics is available.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of connection descriptors for which communication link statistics are includedSBLengthu11 byteLength of one InputStatsSub sub-block.InputStats......A succession of N InputStatsSub sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

InputStatsSub sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionCDu1Identi?er of the connection to which this information applies:Value of Connection type	Example
CD0-31COMx, with x =CD1: COM132-47USBx, with x =CD-3233: USB148-63OTGx, with x =CD-4849: OTG164-95IPx, with x =CD-5464:IP1096-127DSKx, with x =CD-9697:DSK1128-159NTRx, with x =CD-128 (NTRIP connections)129:NTR1160-191IPSx, with x =CD-160 (IP server connections)161:IPS1192BT01 (Bluetooth connection)193BT02 (Bluetooth connection)196UHF1 (UHF Modem)200-205IPRx, with x =CD-200 (IP receive connections)201:IPR1210DCL1 (cellular data-call connection)214CAN1 (CAN stream interface)215-219Reserved220SPI1 (SPI interface)221-255ReservedTypeu1Type of data:
0:	none
1:	DaisyChain (includes "echo" messages) 32:	CMD
33:	SBF
34:	AsciiDisplay (see setDataInOut command) 35:	RINEX
36:	CGGTTS
40:	BINEX
64:	NMEA
96:	RTCMv2
97:	RTCMv3
98:	CMRv2
99:	RTCMV (a proprietary variant of RTCMv2) 100: SPARTN
101: LBMP
110: raw LBAS1 from e.g. NTRIP 111:  raw LBAS2 from e.g. NTRIP
118: raw LBAND data from Beam1 119: raw LBAND data from Beam2 120: raw LBAND data from Beam3 121: raw LBAND data from Beam4 128: Reserved
129: Reserved
130: Reserved
131: SBG (IMU sensor) 132: Reserved
133: Reserved
134: Reserved
135: Reserved
136: Reserved
137: ADIS
160: ASCIIInAgeOfLastMessageu21 s65535Age of the last accepted message.

If the age is older than 65534s, it is clipped to 65534s.NrBytesReceivedu41 byte4294967295Total number of bytes received (7)



NrBytesAcceptedu41 byte4294967295Total number of bytes (7) in messages that passed the check for this type of input (CRC, parity check, ...).

The ratio of NrBytesAccepted to NrBytesReceived gives an indication of the quality of the communication link.NrMsgReceivedu41 messageTotal number of messages of type Type received.NrMsgAcceptedu41 messageTotal number of messages of type Type that were interpreted and used by the receiver.

The ratio of NrMsgAccepted to NrMsgReceived gives an indi- cation of the bandwidth usage e?ciencyPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5














































(7)	Note that, for RTCM 2.x, one 8-bit byte contains 6 RTCM data bits.





The OutputLink block reports statistics of the number of bytes sent on each active connection descriptor.

Per connection descriptor, the receiver maintains two byte counters NrBytesProduced and NrBytesSent, which are reported in the sub-block. They provide an indication of the amount of data output and data lost on a given connection.

These counters are reset simultaneously on the following events:

• start-up of the receiver
• over?ow of one of the counters
• deactivation of a connection descriptor, e.g. on disconnection of USB or IP ports
• change of COM port settings.

There is one OutputStatsSub sub-block per connection descriptor for which statistics is available. Each OutputStatsSub sub-block contains a number of OutputTypeSub sub- blocks. These sub-blocks indicate which data type has been output through the connection in question during the last second. If no output happened during the last second, there is no OutputTypeSub sub-block.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535N1u1Number of OutputStatsSub sub-blocks in this OutputLink block.SB1Lengthu11 byteLength of an OutputStatsSub sub-block, excluding the nested
OutputTypeSub sub-blockSB2Lengthu11 byteLength of an OutputTypeSub sub-blockReservedu1[3]Reserved for future useOutputStats......A succession of N1 OutputStatsSub sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

OutputStatsSub sub-block de?nition:









































Rev 1


OutputTypeSub sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDescriptionTypeu1Type of data:
0:	none
1:	DaisyChain (includes "echo" messages) 32:	CMD
33:	SBF
34:	AsciiDisplay (see setDataInOut command) 35:	RINEX
36:	CGGTTS
40:	BINEX
64:	NMEA
96:	RTCMv2
97:	RTCMv3
98:	CMRv2
99:	RTCMV (a proprietary variant of RTCMv2) 118: raw LBAND data from Beam1
119: raw LBAND data from Beam2 120: raw LBAND data from Beam3
121: raw LBAND data from Beam4Percentageu11 %Percentage of the produced bytes that belong to this type (during the last second)Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block reports the current status of the NTRIP client connections.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of NTRIP client connections for which status is provided in this block, i.e. number of NTRIPClientConnection sub-blocks.SBLengthu11 byteLength of one NTRIPClientConnection sub-blockNTRIPClientConnection......A succession of N NTRIPClientConnection sub-blocks, see de?nition be- lowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
NTRIPClientConnection sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDescriptionCDIndexu1Index of the NTRIP connection (1 for NTR1, 2 for NTR2, etc) for which status is provided in this sub-block.Statusu1NTRIP client status:
0:	Connection disabled
1:	Initializing
2:	Running, differential corrections are being received and the link statistics is available in the InputLink block.
3:	Error detected, the error code is provided in the next ?eld.
4:	Retrying, client encountered an error, we are trying to reconnect. The error code is provided in the next ?eld.
5:	Disabled since the settings are a duplicate of another active NTRIP connection.ErrorCodeu1NTRIP error code:
0:	No error
1:	Initialization error (e.g. source table retrieval failure) 2:	Authentication error
3:	Connection error
4:	Mountpoint does not exist 5:	Mountpoint unavailable
6:	Waiting for GGA
7:	GGA sending disabled when required by mountpoint 8:	Resolving host failed
9:	Out of region
10:	TLS setup error
11:	TLS handshake error 12:	TLS ?ngerprint error 13:	TLS time not known 254: Unknown errorInfou1Bit ?eld indicating miscellaneous info about the Connection status:
Bit 0:	TLS was used to make secure NTRIP connection if this bit is set Bits 1-7: ReservedPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block reports the current status of the NTRIP server connections.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of NTRIP server connections for which status is provided in this block, i.e. number of NTRIPServerConnection sub-blocks.SBLengthu11 byteLength of one NTRIPServerConnection sub-blockNTRIPServerConnection......A succession of N NTRIPServerConnection sub-blocks, see de?nition be- lowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
NTRIPServerConnection sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDescriptionCDIndexu1Index of the NTRIP connection (1 for NTR1, 2 for NTR2, etc) for which status is provided in this sub-block.Statusu1NTRIP server status:
0:	Connection disabled
1:	Initializing
2:	Running, differential corrections are being sent and the link statistics is available in the OutputLink block.
3:	Error detected, the error code is provided in the next ?eld.
4:	Error detected. Currently trying to reconnect. The error code is provided in the next ?eld.
5:	Disabled since the settings are a duplicate of another active NTRIP connection.ErrorCodeu1NTRIP error code:
0:	No error
1:	Initialization error
2:	Authentication error
3:	Connection error
4:	Mountpoint does not exist 5:	Con?guration con?ict error 6:	Resolving host failed
7:	TLS setup error
8:	TLS handshake error 9:	TLS ?ngerprint error 10:	TLS time not known 254: Unknown errorInfou1Bit ?eld indicating miscellaneous info about the Connection status:
Bit 0:	TLS was used to make secure NTRIP connection if this bit is set Bits 1-7: ReservedPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
































Rev 1

This block contains information on the receiver's Ethernet interface (hostname, IP address, gateway, netmask and MAC address).





































Rev 1

This block contains dynamic DNS (DynDNS) status information.





The QualityInd block contains quality indicators for the main functions of the receiver. Each quality indicator is a value from 0 to 10, 0 corresponding to poor quality and 10 to very high quality.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of quality indicators contained in this blockReservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding software.Indicatorsu2[N]
















All elements set to 15N successive quality indicators, coded as follows:
Bits 0-7:	Quality indicator type:
0:	Overall quality
1:  GNSS signals from main antenna 2:  GNSS signals from aux1 antenna
11: RF power level from the main antenna 12: RF power level from the aux1 antenna 21:  CPU headroom
25: OCXO stability (only available on PolaRx5S re- ceivers)
30: Base station measurements. This indicator is only available in RTK mode. A low value could for example hint at severe multipath or inter- ference at the base station, or also at iono- spheric scintillation.
31: RTK post-processing. This indicator is only available when the position mode is not RTK. It indicates the likelihood of getting a cm- accurate RTK position when post-processing the current data.
Bits 8-11: Value of this quality indicator (from 0 for low quality to 10 for high quality, or 15 if unknown)
Bits 12-15: Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding software.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block reports the size and usage of the disks mounted on the receiver.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of DiskData sub-blocks this block contains.SBLengthu11 byteLength of one DiskData sub-blocks in bytes.Reservedu1[4]Reserved for future useDiskData......A succession of N DiskData sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
DiskData sub-block de?nition:













Rev 1













Rev 1







(8)	The disk usage is invalid if both DiskUsageMSB is 65535 and DiskUsageLSB is 4294967295.





The RFStatus block reports on the quality of the radio-frequency (RF) signal received by the antenna(s). The RFBand sub-blocks provide a list of the frequency bands where interfer- ences have been detected and/or mitigated, and the Flags ?eld contains warnings that the receiver's output may be affected by non-authentic RF signals.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of RF bands for which data is provided in this SBF block, i.e. num- ber of RFBand sub-blocks.SBLengthu11 byteLength of one sub-blockFlagsu1Bit ?eld:
Bit 0:  Set when the receiver determined that the GNSS signals at its RF connector may not be authentic and that its output (position or raw measurements) may therefore be misleading. The receiver may be connected to a GNSS simulator, or be subject to a spoof- ing attack.
This bit is based on a set of built-in tests to check the authen- ticity of the GNSS signals. In addition to those tests, Navigation Message Authentication (NMA) is performed as well. If NMA ver- i?cation fails, bit 1 is set instead.
Note that bit 0 may be set even if no interference is detected (i.e. with no associated RFBand sub-blocks).
Bit 1: Set when a non-authentic navigation message is detected by NMA checks (e.g. Galileo OSNMA or Fugro AtomiChron NMA).
Bits 2-7: ReservedReservedu1[3]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding software.RFBand......A succession of N RFBand sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
RFBand sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDescriptionFrequencyu41 HzCenter frequency of the RF band addressed by this sub-block.Bandwidthu21 kHzBandwidth of the RF band.Infou1Info on this RF band:
Bits 0-3: Mode:

1:	This RF band is suppressed by a notch ?lter set manually with the com- mand setNotchFiltering.
2:	The receiver detected interference in this band, and successfully can-
celed it.
8:	The receiver detected interference in this band. No mitigation applied.
Bits 4-5: Reserved
Bits 6-7: Antenna ID: 0 for main, 1 for Aux1 and 2 for Aux2Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




This block reports the status of the active P2PP (Point-to-Point Protocol) sessions. See the
setPointToPoint command for details.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu1Number of active P2PP sessions for which status is provided in this block,
i.e. number of P2PPSession sub-blocks.SBLengthu11 byteLength of one P2PPSession sub-blockP2PPSession......A succession of N P2PPSession sub-blocks, see de?nition belowPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5
P2PPSession sub-block de?nition:


ParameterTypeUnitsDescriptionSessionIDu1Index of the P2PP session (1 for P2PP1, 2 for P2PP2, etc) for which status is provided in this sub-block.Portu1Index for the COM port the P2PP session is con?gured on (1 for COM1, 2 for COM2, etc).Statusu1Bit ?eld:
Bit 0:	Mode: Bit set if the P2PP session is in Server mode, and unset if it is in Client mode (future functionality).
Bits 1-7: P2PP status:
0:	Initializing
1:	Waiting for Connection 2:	Connected
3:	Disconnecting
4:	Error, see ErrorCode ?eld belowErrorCodeu1P2PP error:
1:	No error
2:	Con?guration
3:	Port Acquisition
4:	Port Lock
5:	Start Daemon
6:	Server Authentication
7:	Client Authentication 8:	Timeout on Activity
9:	Timeout on Negotiation 10:	Link Negotiation
255: Unspeci?edPaddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The GALAuthStatus block contains the current status of the Galileo OSNMA authentica- tion.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535OSNMAStatusu2Bit ?eld:Bits 0-2:	status:
0:	Disabled
1:	Initializing
2:	Waiting for trusted time information 3:	Init failed - inconsistent time
4:	Init failed - KROOT signature invalid
5:	Init failed - invalid param received 6:	Authenticating255Bits 3-10: OSNMA initialization progress, expressed in percent [0-100]. This value will only be encoded when the OSNMA Status is ini- tializing. A value of 255 indicates an alert condition of the OS- NMA operation resulting in OSNMA not being available.7Bits 11-13: Trusted time source:
0:	NTP
1:	L-Band
7:	Unknown
Bit 14:	Indicates if the Merkle tree renewal is in progress: 0:	No
1:	Yes
Bit 15:	ReservedTrustedTimeDeltaf41 s-2 · 1010Time difference between external trusted and receiver time, positive when receiver time lags trusted time.GalActiveMasku8Bit ?eld indicating the Galileo satellites for which OSNMA results are avail- able. If bit i is set, OSNMA authentication is available for Galileo satellite i +1.GalAuthenticMasku8Bit ?eld indicating the Galileo satellites successfully authenticated by OSNMA. If bit i is set, the navigation message from Galileo satellite i +1 is authentic.  If bit i is not set and the corresponding bit is set in GalActiveMask, the navigation message from that satellite is non- authentic.GpsActiveMasku8Bit ?eld indicating the GPS satellites for which OSNMA results are avail- able. If bit i is set, OSNMA authentication is available for GPS satellite i +1.GpsAuthenticMasku8Bit ?eld indicating the GPS satellites successfully authenticated by OS- NMA. If bit i is set, the navigation message from GPS satellite i +1 is authen- tic. If bit i is not set and the corresponding bit is set in GpsActiveMask, the navigation message from that satellite is non-authentic.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.2.15 Miscellaneous Blocks


The ReceiverSetup block contains parameters related to the receiver and its installation. When generating RINEX ?les, this block de?nes the RINEX ?le name and the contents of the header.

For all ?elds containing a string, if the length of the string is lower than the size of the corresponding ?eld, the unused bytes are set to zero.




























Rev 1
Rev 2
Rev 3







Rev 4






Rev 4





The receiver generates ASCII messages to help users follow the progress of processes such as ?le logging or FTP push (activity log). These messages are output in the RxMessage block, and they can also be retrieved from the command line using the lif,RxMessages com- mand.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Typeu1255Type of message contained in this block: 1:	Asynchronous command reply
2:	Message about internal logging 3:	Message about FTP push
4:	Message about Receiver Status
5:	Message from slave GNSS receiver 6:	Message about CloudItSeverityu1255Message severity: 1:	Info
2:	Warning
3:	ErrorMessageIDu40A unique value associated to each message. This is a counter start- ing at 1 for the ?rst message after boot and incrementing at each message.StringLnu2Length of Message in characters, including the terminating \0.Reserved2u1[2]Reserved, contents to be ignored.Messagec1[StringLn]Receiver message terminated by \0.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




Every time the user sends a command, a Commands block is output on all ports for which this block is enabled. The Commands SBF block is inserted in the SBF stream at the very moment when the command starts to take effect.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Reservedu1[2]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding software.CmdDatau1[N]Command data, this is the command in the SNMP' format (reserved for maintenance and support only).Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The Comment block contains a comment string as entered with the setObserverComment command.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535CommentLnu2Length of the Comment string, in characters. The maximum length of a comment is 120 characters.Commentc1[CommentLn]Comment string, as entered with the setObserverComment command. Note that this string is not terminated by the "\0" character.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The BBSamples block contains a series of successive complex baseband samples. These samples can be used for signal monitoring and for spectral analysis of the GNSS bands sup- ported by the receiver.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295External time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Nu2Number of complex baseband samples contained in this blockInfou1Bit ?eld as follows:
Bits 0-2: Antenna ID: antenna from which the samples have been taken: 0 for main, 1 for Aux1 and 2 for Aux2.
Bits 3-7: ReservedReservedu1[3]Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding software.SampleFrequ41 HzSampling frequency in Hz.LOFrequ41 HzFrequency of the local oscillator (LO) used to down-convert the RF signal to baseband.Samplesu2[N]N successive complex baseband samples (I+jQ), coded as follows: Bits 0-7: 8-bit Q component, two's complement.
Bits 8-15: 8-bit I component, two's complement.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The ASCIIIn block contains a string that has been received on one of the receiver's connection ports.

More speci?cally, this block is output each time an end-of-line character is received on a communication port con?gured to receive ASCIIIn input (with the setDataInOut command). The string reported in this block contains all characters received since the previous occurrence of an end-of-line character.

The maximum length of the string is 2000 characters. If there are more than 2000 characters between the occurrence of two successive end-of-line characters, the string is discarded

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535CDu1Identi?er of the connection from which the data has been received:Value of Connection type	Example
CD0-31COMx, with x =CD1: COM132-47USBx, with x =CD-3233: USB148-63OTGx, with x =CD-4849: OTG164-95IPx, with x =CD-5464:IP10128-159NTRx, with x =CD-128 (NTRIP connections)129:NTR1192BT01 (Bluetooth connection)193BT02 (Bluetooth connection)196UHF1 (UHF Modem)200-205IPRx, with x =CD-200 (IP receive connections)201:IPR1210DCL1 (cellular data-call connection)214CAN1 (CAN stream interface)215-255ReservedReserved1u1[3]Reserved, contents to be ignored.StringLnu2Length of ASCIIString in characters.SensorModelc1[20]Not supported, reserved for future use.SensorTypec1[20]Not supported, reserved for future use.Reserved2u1[20]Reserved, contents to be ignored.ASCIIStringc1[StringLn]ASCII string. Note that this string is not terminated by the "\0" char- acter. The string does not include the end-of-line character(s) (car- rier return and/or line feed).Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5




The EncapsulatedOutput block encapsulates non-SBF output messages into SBF. It is en- abled with the Encapsulate option of the setDataInOut command.

ParameterTypeUnitsDo-Not-UseDescriptionSync1c1

Block Header, see 4.1.1Sync2c1CRCu2IDu2Lengthu21 byteTOWu40.001 s4294967295Receiver time stamp, see 4.1.3WNcu21 week65535Modeu1Type of the message encapsulated in the Payload ?eld: 0:	RTCMv2
1:	CMRv2
2:	RTCMv3
4:	NMEA
5:	ASCIIDisplayReservedu1Reserved for future use, to be ignored by decoding software.Nu2Length of Payload in bytes.ReservedIdu2Reserved for future usePayloadu1[N]Encapsulated message.Paddingu1[..]Padding bytes, see 4.1.5

4.3 SBF Change Log

DateChange DescriptionApr 10, 2020Added the NTRIPServerStatus block for the NTRIP server connection statusMay 16, 2019Added the P2PPStatus block to report the status of the Point-to-Point ses- sionsApr 26, 2019Added the QZSAlm block containing QZSS almanac parametersMar 12, 2019Added the BDSAlm block containing BeiDou almanac parametersJun 20, 2017Added the BDSIon and BDSUtc blocks containing BeiDou ionospheric and UTC offset parametersJun 15, 2017Added  the	Meas3PP and	Meas3MP blocks to supplement the
Meas3Ranges blockMar 6, 2017Added the Meas3Ranges, Meas3CN0HiRes and Meas3Doppler blocks containing GNSS measurementsMar 1, 2017Renamed CMPNav to BDSNav and CMPRaw to BDSRawNov 10, 2015Added the RxMessage block containing the receiver activity logFeb 04, 2015Added the QZSNav block containing decoded QZSS navigation dataJan 13, 2015Added the PosProjected block containing plane grid coordinatesDec 12, 2014Added the base measurements quality indicatorNov 6, 2014Added the RFStatus block for interference mitigation monitoringApril 30, 2014Added new values for the Datum ?eldApril 22, 2014Added the DiskStatus block reporting the disk usage and free space of the disks available on the receiverFeb 21, 2014Added the NTRIPClientStatus block for the NTRIP client connection sta- tusMarch 14, 2013Added the QualityInd block containing various quality indicatorsFeb 19, 2013Added the CMPNav block containing decoded BeiDou navigation dataFeb 8, 2013Fixed typo: ?eld t_oG of GALGstGps changed to type u4 and units of sec- ondsJan 8, 2013Added ?elds HAccuracy, VAccuracy and Misc to the PVTCartesian
and PVTGeodetic blocksDec 19, 2012Added PRNs 139 and 140 to the list of SBAS satellitesOct 25, 2012Added RTCMDatum and PosLocal blocksOct 1, 2012Added new signal type for L-band and SBAS L5 signals (value 23 and 25)Sep 20, 2012Added ?eld PPPInfo to the PVTCartesian and PVTGeodetic blocksFeb 28, 2012Added GALSARRLM blockFeb 6, 2012Added QZSS signals and QZSRawL1CA, QZSRawL2C and QZSRawL5 blocks







Appendix A

Attitude Angles

The attitude of the vehicle is de?ned as the angles between the vehicle reference frame and the local-level reference frame (de?ned by the East, North and Up directions). The vehicle reference frame is de?ned as follows. It is attached to the vehicle and has its X axis pointing along the longitudinal vehicle axis, the Y axis pointing towards the vehicle starboard (right) side and the Z axis pointing down, as illustrated in Figure A-1.


Figure A-1: Vehicle reference frame.

Septentrio receivers express the vehicle attitude in Euler angles using the heading-pitch-roll rotation sequence. More speci?cally, Euler angles are de?ned as successive rotations of the vehicle frame (X, Y, Z axes) relative to the local-level East-North-Up reference frame. The rotation sequence is shown in Figure A-2. The heading (?) of the vehicle is de?ned as the right-handed rotation of the vehicle about the Z axis (0o = ? = 360o ). The pitch (?) of the vehicle is de?ned as the right-handed rotation about the vehicle Y axis (-90o = ? = 90o ). The roll (?) of the vehicle is de?ned as the right-handed rotation about the vehicle X axis (-180o = ? = 180o ).
Starting from the situation where X points to the North, Y to the East and Z down, the following successive rotations de?ne the attitude of the vehicle. Note that the order of the rotations is important.


1. Rotate through angle ? about Z axis;
2. Rotate through angle ? about new Y axis;
3. Rotate through angle ? about new X axis;

N	U	U






E


top-view



Zv

Figure A-2: Euler angle sequence.








Appendix B

List of SBF Blocks

The following table provides the list of the SBF block names and numbers available on mosaic- H and a short description of the associated contents. The block number is contained in bits 0 to 12 of the block ID ?eld (see section 4.1.1).
The "Flex Rate" column indicates whether a given block can be output at a user-de?ned rate and the "esoc" column whether it can be used as an argument of the exeSBFOnce command (see also section 4.1.8). The "Time stamp" column indicates which type of time is encoded in the block time stamp (see section 4.1.3 for details).


Block nameBlock
NoContent descriptionFlex
RateesocTime
StampMeasurement BlocksMeasEpoch4027Measurement set of one epoch••RMeasExtra4000Additional info such as observable variance••RMeas3Ranges4109Code, phase and CN0 measurements••RMeas3CN0HiRes4110Extension of Meas3Ranges containing fractional C/N0 values••RMeas3Doppler4111Extension of Meas3Ranges containing Doppler values••RMeas3PP4112Extension of Meas3Ranges containing proprietary ?ags for data post-
processing.••RMeas3MP4113Extension of Meas3Ranges containing multipath corrections applied by
the receiver.••REndOfMeas5922Measurement epoch marker••RNavigation Page BlocksGPSRawCA4017GPS CA navigation subframeSGPSRawL2C4018GPS L2C navigation frameSGLORawCA4026GLONASS CA navigation stringSGALRawINAV4023Galileo I/NAV navigation pageSGEORawL14020SBAS L1 navigation messageSBDSRaw4047BeiDou navigation pageSQZSRawL1CA4066QZSS L1C/A or L1C/B navigation frameSQZSRawL2C4067QZSS L2C navigation frameSGPS Decoded Message BlocksGPSNav5891GPS ephemeris and clock•SGPSAlm5892Almanac data for a GPS satellite•SGPSIon5893Ionosphere data from the GPS subframe 5•SGPSUtc5894GPS-UTC data from GPS subframe 5•SGPSCNav4042CNAV Ephemeris data for one satellite.•SGLONASS Decoded Message BlocksGLONav4004GLONASS ephemeris and clock•SGLOAlm4005Almanac data for a GLONASS satellite•SGLOTime4036GLO-UTC, GLO-GPS and GLO-UT1 data•SGalileo Decoded Message BlocksGALNav4002Galileo ephemeris, clock, health and BGD•SGALAlm4003Almanac data for a Galileo satellite•SGALIon4030NeQuick Ionosphere model parameters•SGALUtc4031GST-UTC data•SGALGstGps4032GST-GPS data•S


Block nameBlock
NoContent descriptionFlex
RateesocTime
StampGALSARRLM4034Search-and-rescue return link messageSBeiDou Decoded Message BlocksBDSNav4081BeiDou ephemeris and clock•SBDSAlm4119Almanac data for a BeiDou satellite•SBDSIon4120BeiDou Ionospheric delay model parameters•SBDSUtc4121BDT-UTC data•SQZSS Decoded Message BlocksQZSNav4095QZSS ephemeris and clock•SQZSAlm4116Almanac data for a QZSS satellite•SSBAS L1 Decoded Message BlocksGEOMT005925MT00 : SBAS Don't use for safety applicationsSGEOPRNMask5926MT01 : PRN Mask assignmentsSGEOFastCorr5927MT02-05/24: Fast CorrectionsSGEOIntegrity5928MT06 : Integrity informationSGEOFastCorrDegr5929MT07 : Fast correction degradation factorsSGEONav5896MT09 : SBAS navigation message•SGEODegrFactors5930MT10 : Degradation factorsSGEONetworkTime5918MT12 : SBAS Network Time/UTC offset parametersSGEOAlm5897MT17 : SBAS satellite almanac•SGEOIGPMask5931MT18 : Ionospheric grid point maskSGEOLongTermCorr5932MT24/25 : Long term satellite error correctionsSGEOIonoDelay5933MT26 : Ionospheric delay correctionsSGEOServiceLevel5917MT27 : SBAS Service MessageSGEOClockEphCovMatrix5934MT28 : Clock-Ephemeris Covariance MatrixSGNSS Position, Velocity and Time BlocksPVTCartesian4006GNSS position, velocity, and time in Cartesian coordinates••RPVTGeodetic4007GNSS position, velocity, and time in geodetic coordinates••RPosCovCartesian5905Position covariance matrix (X,Y, Z)••RPosCovGeodetic5906Position covariance matrix (Lat, Lon, Alt)••RVelCovCartesian5907Velocity covariance matrix (X, Y, Z)••RVelCovGeodetic5908Velocity covariance matrix (North, East, Up)••RDOP4001Dilution of precision••RPosCart4044Position, variance and baseline in Cartesian coordinates••RPosLocal4052Position in a local datum••RPosProjected4094Plane grid coordinates••RBaseVectorCart4043XYZ relative position and velocity with respect to base(s)••RBaseVectorGeod4028ENU relative position and velocity with respect to base(s)••RPVTSupport4076Internal parameters for maintenance and support••RPVTSupportA4079Internal parameters for maintenance and support••REndOfPVT5921PVT epoch marker••RGNSS Attitude BlocksAttEuler5938GNSS attitude expressed as Euler angles••RAttCovEuler5939Covariance matrix of attitude••RAuxAntPositions5942Relative position and velocity estimates of auxiliary antennas••REndOfAtt5943GNSS attitude epoch marker••RReceiver Time BlocksReceiverTime5914Current receiver and UTC time••RxPPSOffset5911Offset of the xPPS pulse with respect to GNSS timeRExternal Event BlocksExtEvent5924Time at the instant of an external eventEExtEventPVTCartesian4037Cartesian position at the instant of an eventEExtEventPVTGeodetic4038Geodetic position at the instant of an eventEExtEventBaseVectGeod4217ENU relative position with respect to base(s) at the instant of an eventEExtEventAttEuler4237GNSS attitude expressed as Euler angles at the instant of an eventEDifferential Correction BlocksDiffCorrIn5919Incoming RTCM or CMR messageRBaseStation5949Base station coordinatesRRTCMDatum4049Datum information from the RTK service providerRStatus BlocksChannelStatus4013Status of the tracking for all receiver channels••RReceiverStatus4014Overall status information of the receiver••RSatVisibility4012Azimuth/elevation of visible satellites••RInputLink4090Statistics on input streams••ROutputLink4091Statistics on output streams••RNTRIPClientStatus4053NTRIP client connection status••RNTRIPServerStatus4122NTRIP server connection status••RIPStatus4058IP address, gateway and MAC address of Ethernet interface•RDynDNSStatus4105DynDNS status••R


Block nameBlock
NoContent descriptionFlex
RateesocTime
StampQualityInd4082Quality indicators••RDiskStatus4059Internal logging status••RRFStatus4092Radio-frequency interference mitigation status••RP2PPStatus4238P2PP client/server status••RGALAuthStatus4245Galileo OSNMA authentication status••RMiscellaneous BlocksReceiverSetup5902General information about the receiver installation•RRxMessage4103Receiver message•RCommands4015Commands entered by the user•RComment5936Comment entered by the user•RBBSamples4040Baseband samplesEASCIIIn4075ASCII input from external sensorREncapsulatedOutput4097SBF encapsulation of non-SBF messagesR







Appendix C

List of NMEA Sentences

The following table provides a list of the NMEA messages supported by your receiver. The ?rst column is the message identi?er to be used in the setNMEAOutput and the exeNMEAOnce commands.
For a full description of the NMEA messages, please refer to the NMEA 0183 standard.




Message
Identi?erNMEA For-
matterShort DescriptionCommentALMALMGPS Almanac DataAVRAVRTrimble	Navigation
$PTNL,AVR sentenceproprietaryDTMDTMDatum ReferenceGBSGBSGNSS Satellite Fault DetectionGFAGFAGNSS Fix Accuracy and IntegrityGGAGGAGPS Fix DataGGAaux1GGAGPS Fix DataGGA sentence containing the position of the aux1
antennaGGKGGKTrimble	Navigation
$PTNL,GGK sentenceproprietaryGGQGGQLeica Real-Time Position with CQGLLGLLGeographic Position - Latitude/Longi-
tudeGMPGMPGNSS Map Projection Fix DataGNSGNSGNSS Fix DataGRSGRSGNSS Range ResidualsGSAGSAGNSS DOP and Active SatellitesGSTGSTGNSS Pseudorange Error StatisticsGSVGSVGNSS Satellites in ViewHDTHDTHeading, TrueHRPHRPHeading, Roll, PitchSeptentrio proprietary, see section C.1.1LLKLLKLeica Local Position and GDOPLLQLLQLeica Local Position and QualityRBDRBDRover-Base DirectionSeptentrio proprietary, see section C.1.2RBPRBPRover-Base PositionSeptentrio proprietary, see section C.1.3RBVRBVRover-Base VelocitySeptentrio proprietary, see section C.1.4RMCRMCRecommended Minimum Speci?c GNSS
DataROTROTRate of TurnSNCSNCNTRIP Client StatusSeptentrio proprietary, see section C.1.5


Message
Identi?erNMEA For-
matterShort DescriptionCommentTFMTFMUsed Coordinate Transformation Mes-
sagesSeptentrio proprietary, see section C.1.6THSTHSTrue Heading and StatusTXTbaseTXTText TransmissionText from a base station in RTCM message type 1029. The text identi?er is set to 1, and the text message is in the form "nnnn:<base txt>",
where nnnn is the base station ID.VTGVTGCourse Over Ground and Ground SpeedZDAZDATime and Date
Note: in sentences containing satellite-per-satellite data, data for BeiDou satellites are en- coded using System ID 4 (BD) and satellite ID 1-36. Data for NavIC/IRNSS, QZSS and SBAS satellites with a PRN>151 are not encoded in NMEA.

Appendix C.1  Proprietary NMEA Sentences
C.1.1 HRP : Heading, Roll, Pitch

FieldDescription$PSSN,HRP,Start of sentencehhmmss.ss,UTC of HRP (HoursMinutesSeconds.DecimalSeconds)xxxxxx,Date: ddmmyyx.x,Heading, degrees Truex.x,Roll, degreesx.x,Pitch, degreesx.x,Heading standard deviation, degreesx.x,Roll standard deviation, degreesx.x,Pitch standard deviation, degreesxx,Number of satellites used for attitude computation


x,Mode indicator:
0: No attitude available
1: Heading, Pitch with ?oat ambiguities 2: Heading, Pitch with ?xed ambiguities
3: Heading, Pitch, Roll with ?oat ambiguities 4: Heading, Pitch, Roll with ?xed ambiguities
5: Heading, Pitch from velocity (dead-reckoning) 6: Heading, Pitch, Roll from non-RTK INS
7: Heading, Pitch, Roll from RTK INS
8: Heading, Pitch, Roll from INS coastingx.x,aMagnetic variation, degrees (E=East, W=West, see also the setMagneticVariance com- mand)*hhChecksum delimiter and checksum ?eld<CR><LF>End of sentence

C.1.2 RBD : Rover-Base Direction

FieldDescription$PSSN,RBD,Start of sentencehhmmss.ss,UTC of RBD (HoursMinutesSeconds.DecimalSeconds)xxxxxx,Date: ddmmyyx.x,Azimuth of the base as seen from rover (0 to 360 increasing towards east), degrees Truex.x,Elevation of the base as seen from rover (-90 to 90), degreesxx,Number of satellites used for baseline computation
x,Quality indicator:
0: Invalid
2: DPGS
4: RTK
5: Float RTKx,Base motion indicator:
0: Static base
1: Moving basex.x,Correction Age, secondsc-c,Rover serial numberxxxxBase station ID*hhChecksum delimiter and checksum ?eld<CR><LF>End of sentence
C.1.3 RBP : Rover-Base Position

FieldDescription$PSSN,RBP,Start of sentencehhmmss.ss,UTC of RBP (HoursMinutesSeconds.DecimalSeconds)xxxxxx,Date: ddmmyyx.x,North (True) baseline component (positive when base is north of rover), metersx.x,East baseline component (positive when base is east of rover), metersx.x,Up baseline component (positive when base is higher than rover), metersxx,Number of satellites used for baseline computation
x,Quality indicator:
0: Invalid
2: DPGS
4: RTK
5: Float RTKx,Base motion indicator:
0: Static base
1: Moving basex.x,Correction Age, secondsc-c,Rover serial numberxxxxBase station ID*hhChecksum delimiter and checksum ?eld<CR><LF>End of sentence

C.1.4 RBV : Rover-Base Velocity

FieldDescription$PSSN,RBV,Start of sentencehhmmss.ss,UTC of RBV (HoursMinutesSeconds.DecimalSeconds)xxxxxx,Date: ddmmyyx.x,Rate of change of baseline vector (rover to base), north component, m/sx.x,Rate of change of baseline vector (rover to base), east component, m/sx.x,Rate of change of baseline vector (rover to base), up component, m/sxx,Number of satellites used for baseline computation
x,Quality indicator:
0: Invalid
2: DPGS
4: RTK
5: Float RTKx,Base motion indicator:
0: Static base
1: Moving basex.x,Correction Age, secondsc-c,Rover serial numberxxxxBase station ID*hhChecksum delimiter and checksum ?eld<CR><LF>End of sentence
C.1.5 SNC : NTRIP Client Status
This proprietary sentence is the NMEA equivalent of the NTRIPClientStatus SBF block.

FieldDescription$PSSN,SNC,Start of sentence[x,message revisionxxxxxxxxx,time of week, millisecondsxxxx,week number<SNCSub>a succession of SNCSub sub-messages, see de?nition below]*hhChecksum delimiter and checksum ?eld<CR><LF>End of sentenceSNCSub de?nition:

FieldDescription[x,CDIndex ?eld of the NTRIPClientStatus SBF blockx,Status ?eld of the NTRIPClientStatus SBF blockx,ErrorCode ?eld of the NTRIPClientStatus SBF blockxInfo ?eld of the NTRIPClientStatus SBF block]Example:
$PSSN,SNC,[0,379359000,1840,[1,2,0,0]]*68

C.1.6 TFM : Used RTCM Coordinate Transforma- tion Messages
This proprietary sentence indicates which RTCM coordinate transformation messages have been received and used in the position computation.



FieldDescription$PSSN,TFM,Start of sentencehhmmss.ss,UTC time (HoursMinutesSeconds.DecimalSeconds)x,Height indicator, a copy of the Height Indicator ?eld in RTCM message 1021 or 1022. Null if
unknown.
xxxx,Message 1021/1022 usage (they are exclusive). Possible ?eld values: 1021: Message type 1021 used;
1022: Message type 1022 used;
null: neither 1021 nor 1022 used.
xxxx,Message 1023/1024 usage (they are exclusive). Possible ?eld values: 1023: Message type 1023 used;
1024: Message type 1024 used;
null: neither 1023 nor 1024 used.

xxxxMessage 1025/1026/1027 usage (they are exclusive). Possible ?eld values: 1025: Message type 1025 used;
1026: Message type 1026 used;
1027: Message type 1027 used;
null: neither 1025 nor 1026 nor 1027 used.*hhChecksum delimiter and checksum ?eld<CR><LF>End of sentenceExample:
$PSSN,TFM,104751.00,2,1021,1023,1025*5F









Appendix D

List of CMR and RTCM Messages

This appendix provides a list of all the CMR and RTCM (v2.x and v3.x) messages supported by the receiver.

Appendix D.1	CMR Messages

Message Iden- Short Description
ti?erCMR0ObservablesCMR1Reference Station CoordinatesCMR2Reference Station DescriptionCMR3GLONASS ObservablesCMR0pCMR+ variantCMR0wCMR-W variantAppendix D.2	RTCM v2.x Messages

Message Iden- Short Description
ti?erRTCM1Differential GPS CorrectionsRTCM3GPS Reference Station ParametersRTCM9GPS Partial Correction SetRTCM15Ionospheric DelayRTCM16GPS Special MessageRTCM17GPS Ephemerides MessageRTCM18RTK Uncorrected Carrier PhasesRTCM19RTK Uncorrected PseudorangesRTCM20RTK Carrier Phase CorrectionsRTCM21RTK/Hi-Accuracy Pseudorange CorrectionsRTCM22Extended Reference Station ParametersRTCM23Antenne Type De?nition RecordRTCM24Antenna Reference Point (ARP)RTCM31Differential GLONASS CorrectionsRTCM32GLONASS Reference Station ParametersRTCM34GLONASS Partial Correction SetRTCM59Proprietary MessageAppendix D.3	RTCM v3.x Messages



Message Iden- Short Description
ti?erRTCM1001L1-Only GPS RTK ObservablesRTCM1002Extended L1-Only GPS RTK ObservablesRTCM1003L1&L2 GPS RTK ObservablesRTCM1004Extended L1&L2 GPS RTK ObservablesRTCM1005Stationary RTK Reference Station ARPRTCM1006Stationary RTK Reference Station ARP with Antenna HeightRTCM1007Antenna DescriptorRTCM1008Antenna Descriptor and Serial NumberRTCM1009L1-Only GLONASS RTK ObservablesRTCM1010Extended L1-Only GLONASS RTK ObservablesRTCM1011L1&L2 GLONASS RTK ObservablesRTCM1012Extended L1&L2 GLONASS RTK ObservablesRTCM1013System ParametersRTCM1015Network RTK (MAC), GPS Ionospheric Correction DifferencesRTCM1016Network RTK (MAC), GPS Geometric Correction DifferencesRTCM1017Network RTK (MAC), GPS Combined Geometric and Ionospheric Correction DifferencesRTCM1019GPS Satellite Ephemeris DataRTCM1020Glonass Satellite Ephemeris DataRTCM1021Helmert-Abridged Molodenski Transformation ParametersRTCM1022Molodenski-Badekas Transformation ParametersRTCM1023Residuals, Ellipsoidal Grid RepresentationRTCM1024Residuals, Plane Grid RepresentationRTCM1025Projection Parameters, Projection Types other than Lambert Conic Conformal (2 SP) and
Oblique MercatorRTCM1026Projection Parameters, Projection Type LCC2SP (Lambert Conic Conformal (2 SP))RTCM1027Projection Parameters, Projection Type OM (Oblique Mercator)RTCM1029Unicode Text StringRTCM1033Receiver and Antenna DescriptorsRTCM1037Network RTK (MAC), GLONASS Ionospheric Correction DifferencesRTCM1038Network RTK (MAC), GLONASS Geometric Correction DifferencesRTCM1039Network RTK (MAC), GLONASS Combined Geometric and Ionospheric Correction DifferencesRTCM1042BDS Satellite Ephemeris DataRTCM1044QZSS Satellite Ephemeris DataRTCM1046Galileo I/NAV Satellite Ephemeris DataRTCM1071GPS MSM1, Compact PseudorangesRTCM1072GPS MSM2, Compact PhaseRangesRTCM1073GPS MSM3, Compact Pseudoranges and PhaseRangesRTCM1074GPS MSM4, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNRRTCM1075GPS MSM5, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNRRTCM1076GPS MSM6, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNR (high resolution)RTCM1077GPS MSM7, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNR (high resolution)RTCM1081GLONASS MSM1, Compact PseudorangesRTCM1082GLONASS MSM2, Compact PhaseRangesRTCM1083GLONASS MSM3, Compact Pseudoranges and PhaseRangesRTCM1084GLONASS MSM4, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNRRTCM1085GLONASS MSM5, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNRRTCM1086GLONASS MSM6, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNR (high resolution)RTCM1087GLONASS MSM7, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNR (high resolution)RTCM1091Galileo MSM1, Compact PseudorangesRTCM1092Galileo MSM2, Compact PhaseRangesRTCM1093Galileo MSM3, Compact Pseudoranges and PhaseRangesRTCM1094Galileo MSM4, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNRRTCM1095Galileo MSM5, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNRRTCM1096Galileo MSM6, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNR (high resolution)RTCM1097Galileo MSM7, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNR (high resolution)RTCM1101SBAS MSM1, Compact PseudorangesRTCM1102SBAS MSM2, Compact PhaseRangesRTCM1103SBAS MSM3, Compact Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges


Message Iden- Short Description
ti?erRTCM1104SBAS MSM4, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNRRTCM1105SBAS MSM5, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNRRTCM1106SBAS MSM6, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNR (high resolution)RTCM1107SBAS MSM7, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNR (high resolution)RTCM1111QZSS MSM1, Compact PseudorangesRTCM1112QZSS MSM2, Compact PhaseRangesRTCM1113QZSS MSM3, Compact Pseudoranges and PhaseRangesRTCM1114QZSS MSM4, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNRRTCM1115QZSS MSM5, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNRRTCM1116QZSS MSM6, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNR (high resolution)RTCM1117QZSS MSM7, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNR (high resolution)RTCM1121BeiDou MSM1, Compact PseudorangesRTCM1122BeiDou MSM2, Compact PhaseRangesRTCM1123BeiDou MSM3, Compact Pseudoranges and PhaseRangesRTCM1124BeiDou MSM4, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNRRTCM1125BeiDou MSM5, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNRRTCM1126BeiDou MSM6, Full Pseudoranges and PhaseRanges plus CNR (high resolution)RTCM1127BeiDou MSM7, Full Pseudoranges, PhaseRanges, PhaseRangeRate and CNR (high resolution)RTCM1230GLONASS L1&L2 Code-Phase Biases







Index of Commands

A
AGCMode
setAGCMode, getAGCMode sam, gam, 102
AntennaInfo
lstAntennaInfo lai, 69
AntennaLocation
setAntennaLocation, getAntennaLocation sal, gal, 136
AntennaOffset
setAntennaOffset, getAntennaOffset sao, gao, 107
AttitudeOffset
setAttitudeOffset, getAttitudeOffset sto, gto, 137
B
BBSamplingMode
setBBSamplingMode, getBBSamplingMode sbbs, gbbs, 103
C
ChannelAllocation
setChannelAllocation, getChannelAllocation sca, gca, 93
CheckInternetAvailability
setCheckInternetAvailability, getCheckInternetAvailability scia, gcia, 159
ClockSyncThreshold
setClockSyncThreshold, getClockSyncThreshold scst, gcst, 148
CMRv2Formatting
setCMRv2Formatting, getCMRv2Formatting sc2f, gc2f, 215
CMRv2Interval
setCMRv2Interval, getCMRv2Interval sc2i, gc2i, 216
CMRv2Message2
setCMRv2Message2, getCMRv2Message2 sc2m, gc2m, 217


CMRv2Output
setCMRv2Output, getCMRv2Output sc2o, gc2o, 218
CMRv2Usage
setCMRv2Usage, getCMRv2Usage sc2u, gc2u, 219
CN0Mask
setCN0Mask, getCN0Mask scm, gcm, 95
CommandHelp lstCommandHelp
      help, 70 COMSettings
setCOMSettings, getCOMSettings scs, gcs, 160
Con?gFile
lstCon?gFile lcf, 71
CopyCon?gFile
exeCopyCon?gFile, getCopyCon?gFile eccf, gccf, 72
CrossDomainWebAccess
setCrossDomainWebAccess, getCrossDomainWebAccess scda, gcda, 161
CurrentUser
lstCurrentUser lcu, 88
D
DaisyChainMode
setDaisyChainMode, getDaisyChainMode sdcm, gdcm, 162
DataInOut
setDataInOut, getDataInOut sdio, gdio, 163
DefaultAccessLevel
setDefaultAccessLevel, getDefaultAccessLevel sdal, gdal, 89
DiffCorrMaxAge
setDiffCorrMaxAge, getDiffCorrMaxAge sdca, gdca, 108
DiffCorrUsage
setDiffCorrUsage, getDiffCorrUsage sdcu, gdcu, 109
DiskFullAction
setDiskFullAction, getDiskFullAction sdfa, gdfa, 220
DiskInfo
lstDiskInfo ldi, 221
DynamicDNS


sdds, gdds, 165
E
EchoMessage
exeEchoMessage, getEchoMessage eecm, gecm, 166
ElevationMask
setElevationMask, getElevationMask sem, gem, 110
ENHTransfoHorizontal
setENHTransfoHorizontal, getENHTransfoHorizontal smth, gmth, 144
ENHTransfoVertical
setENHTransfoVertical, getENHTransfoVertical smtv, gmtv, 145
EthernetMode
setEthernetMode, getEthernetMode seth, geth, 73
EventParameters
setEventParameters, getEventParameters sep, gep, 149
F
FileNaming
setFileNaming, getFileNaming sfn, gfn, 222
FrontendMode
setFrontendMode, getFrontendMode sfm, gfm, 104
FTPPushRINEX
setFTPPushRINEX, getFTPPushRINEX sfpr, gfpr, 231
FTPPushSBF
setFTPPushSBF, getFTPPushSBF sfps, gfps, 232
FTPPushTest
exeFTPPushTest, getFTPPushTest efpt, gfpt, 233
FTPUpgrade
exeFTPUpgrade, getFTPUpgrade efup, gfup, 74
G
GalOSNMAPublicKeys lstGalOSNMAPublicKeys
lopk, 133
setGalOSNMAPublicKeys, getGalOSNMAPublicKeys sopk, gopk, 134
GalOSNMAUsage
setGalOSNMAUsage, getGalOSNMAUsage sou, gou, 135
GeodeticDatum
setGeodeticDatum, getGeodeticDatum


      sgd, ggd, 139 GeoidUndulation
setGeoidUndulation, getGeoidUndulation sgu, ggu, 111
GlobalFileNamingOptions
setGlobalFileNamingOptions, getGlobalFileNamingOptions sfno, gfno, 224
GNSSAttitude
setGNSSAttitude, getGNSSAttitude sga, gga, 138
GPIOFunctionality
setGPIOFunctionality, getGPIOFunctionality sgpf, ggpf, 75
H
HealthMask
setHealthMask, getHealthMask shm, ghm, 112
HttpsSettings
setHttpsSettings, getHttpsSettings shs, ghs, 168
I
InternalFile
lstInternalFile lif, 76
IonosphereModel
setIonosphereModel, getIonosphereModel sim, gim, 113
IPFiltering
setIPFiltering, getIPFiltering sipf, gipf, 169
IPKeepAlive
setIPKeepAlive, getIPKeepAlive sipk, gipk, 170
IPPortSettings
setIPPortSettings, getIPPortSettings sipp, gipp, 171
IPReceiveSettings
setIPReceiveSettings, getIPReceiveSettings sirs, girs, 172
IPServerSettings
setIPServerSettings, getIPServerSettings siss, giss, 173
IPSettings
setIPSettings, getIPSettings sips, gips, 174
L
LEDMode
setLEDMode, getLEDMode slm, glm, 77
LocalCoordOperation


setLocalCoordOperation, getLocalCoordOperation slco, glco, 146
LocalCoordOperations lstLocalCoordOperations
llc, 147
LogIn
LogIn
      login, 90 LogOut
LogOut logout, 91
M
MagneticVariance
setMagneticVariance, getMagneticVariance smv, gmv, 115
ManageDisk
exeManageDisk, getManageDisk emd, gmd, 225
MarkerParameters
setMarkerParameters, getMarkerParameters smp, gmp, 156
Meas3MaxRefInterval
setMeas3MaxRefInterval, getMeas3MaxRefInterval smrf, gmrf, 192
MIBDescription lstMIBDescription
     lmd, 78 MultipathMitigation
setMultipathMitigation, getMultipathMitigation smm, gmm, 96
N
NetworkRTKCon?g
setNetworkRTKCon?g, getNetworkRTKCon?g snrc, gnrc, 116
NMEAOnce
exeNMEAOnce, getNMEAOnce enoc, gnoc, 186
NMEAOutput
setNMEAOutput, getNMEAOutput sno, gno, 187
NMEAPrecision
setNMEAPrecision, getNMEAPrecision snp, gnp, 189
NMEATalkerID
setNMEATalkerID, getNMEATalkerID snti, gnti, 190
NMEAVersion
setNMEAVersion, getNMEAVersion snv, gnv, 191
NotchFiltering


 407 


setNotchFiltering, getNotchFiltering snf, gnf, 105
NtpClient
setNtpClient, getNtpClient snc, gnc, 150
NTPServer
setNTPServer, getNTPServer sntp, gntp, 151
NtripCasterMountPoints
setNtripCasterMountPoints, getNtripCasterMountPoints snmp, gnmp, 179
NtripCasterMPFormat
setNtripCasterMPFormat, getNtripCasterMPFormat smpf, gmpf, 180
NtripCasterSettings
setNtripCasterSettings, getNtripCasterSettings sncs, gncs, 181
NtripCasterUsers
setNtripCasterUsers, getNtripCasterUsers sncu, gncu, 182
NtripSettings
setNtripSettings, getNtripSettings snts, gnts, 183
NTRIPSourceTable lstNTRIPSourceTable
     lnst, 184 NtripTlsSettings
setNtripTlsSettings, getNtripTlsSettings sntt, gntt, 185
O
ObserverComment
setObserverComment, getObserverComment soc, goc, 157
ObserverParameters
setObserverParameters, getObserverParameters sop, gop, 158
P
PeriodicEcho
setPeriodicEcho, getPeriodicEcho spe, gpe, 175
PointToPoint
setPointToPoint, getPointToPoint sp2p, gp2p, 177
PortFirewall
setPortFirewall, getPortFirewall spfw, gpfw, 178
PowerMode
exePowerMode, getPowerMode epwm, gpwm, 87
PPSParameters


setPPSParameters, getPPSParameters spps, gpps, 152
PTPServer
setPTPServer, getPTPServer sptp, gptp, 154
PVTMode
setPVTMode, getPVTMode spm, gpm, 117
R
RAIMLevels
setRAIMLevels, getRAIMLevels srl, grl, 119
ReceiverCapabilities
getReceiverCapabilities grc, 79
ReceiverDynamics
setReceiverDynamics, getReceiverDynamics srd, grd, 120
ReceiverInterface
getReceiverInterface gri, 82
RecordedFile
lstRecordedFile lrf, 226
RegisteredApplications
exeRegisteredApplications, getRegisteredApplications era, gra, 83
RemoveFile
exeRemoveFile, getRemoveFile erf, grf, 227
ResetNavFilter
exeResetNavFilter, getResetNavFilter ernf, grnf, 121
ResetReceiver
exeResetReceiver, getResetReceiver erst, grst, 84
RINEXLogging
setRINEXLogging, getRINEXLogging srxl, grxl, 228
RTCMv2Compatibility
setRTCMv2Compatibility, getRTCMv2Compatibility sr2c, gr2c, 199
RTCMv2EphemerisHoldoff
setRTCMv2EphemerisHoldoff, getRTCMv2EphemerisHoldoff sr2h, gr2h, 200
RTCMv2Formatting
setRTCMv2Formatting, getRTCMv2Formatting sr2f, gr2f, 201
RTCMv2Interval
setRTCMv2Interval, getRTCMv2Interval sr2i, gr2i, 202


RTCMv2IntervalObs
setRTCMv2IntervalObs, getRTCMv2IntervalObs sr2b, gr2b, 203
RTCMv2Message16
setRTCMv2Message16, getRTCMv2Message16 sr2m, gr2m, 204
RTCMv2Output
setRTCMv2Output, getRTCMv2Output sr2o, gr2o, 205
RTCMv2Usage
setRTCMv2Usage, getRTCMv2Usage sr2u, gr2u, 206
RTCMv3CRSTransfo
setRTCMv3CRSTransfo, getRTCMv3CRSTransfo sr3t, gr3t, 207
RTCMv3Delay
setRTCMv3Delay, getRTCMv3Delay sr3d, gr3d, 208
RTCMv3Formatting
setRTCMv3Formatting, getRTCMv3Formatting sr3f, gr3f, 209
RTCMv3Interval
setRTCMv3Interval, getRTCMv3Interval sr3i, gr3i, 210
RTCMv3Message1029
setRTCMv3Message1029, getRTCMv3Message1029 sr3m, gr3m, 211
RTCMv3Output
setRTCMv3Output, getRTCMv3Output sr3o, gr3o, 212
RTCMv3Usage
setRTCMv3Usage, getRTCMv3Usage sr3u, gr3u, 214
S
SatelliteTracking
setSatelliteTracking, getSatelliteTracking sst, gst, 97
SatelliteUsage
setSatelliteUsage, getSatelliteUsage ssu, gsu, 122
SBASCorrections
setSBASCorrections, getSBASCorrections ssbc, gsbc, 124
SBFGroups
setSBFGroups, getSBFGroups ssgp, gsgp, 193
SBFOnce
exeSBFOnce, getSBFOnce esoc, gsoc, 194
SBFOutput
setSBFOutput, getSBFOutput


      sso, gso, 196 SignalTracking
setSignalTracking, getSignalTracking snt, gnt, 99
SignalUsage
setSignalUsage, getSignalUsage snu, gnu, 126
SmoothingInterval
setSmoothingInterval, getSmoothingInterval ssi, gsi, 100
StaticPosCartesian
setStaticPosCartesian, getStaticPosCartesian sspc, gspc, 127
StaticPosGeodetic
setStaticPosGeodetic, getStaticPosGeodetic sspg, gspg, 129
T
TimingSystem
setTimingSystem, getTimingSystem sts, gts, 155
TrackingLoopParameters
setTrackingLoopParameters, getTrackingLoopParameters stlp, gtlp, 101
TroposphereModel
setTroposphereModel, getTroposphereModel stm, gtm, 130
TroposphereParameters
setTroposphereParameters, getTroposphereParameters stp, gtp, 132
U
UMSDOnConnect
setUMSDOnConnect, getUMSDOnConnect suoc, guoc, 230
USBInternetAccess
setUSBInternetAccess, getUSBInternetAccess suia, guia, 86
UserAccessLevel
setUserAccessLevel, getUserAccessLevel sual, gual, 92
UserDatum
setUserDatum, getUserDatum sud, gud, 141
UserDatumVel
setUserDatumVel, getUserDatumVel sudv, gudv, 142
UserEllipsoid
setUserEllipsoid, getUserEllipsoid sue, gue, 143
W
WBIMitigation


setWBIMitigation, getWBIMitigation swbi, gwbi, 106








Index of SBF Blocks

ASCIIIn, 387
AttCovEuler, 337
AttEuler, 336
AuxAntPositions, 338

BaseStation, 356
BaseVectorCart, 328
BaseVectorGeod, 331
BBSamples, 386
BDSAlm,283BDSIon,284BDSNav,281BDSRaw,260BDSUtc,285
ChannelStatus, 358
Commands, 384
Comment, 385

DiffCorrIn, 354
DiskStatus, 377
DOP, 319
DynDNSStatus, 375

EncapsulatedOutput, 388
EndOfAtt, 339
EndOfMeas, 254
EndOfPVT, 335
ExtEvent, 343
ExtEventAttEuler, 353
ExtEventBaseVectGeod, 350
ExtEventPVTCartesian, 344
ExtEventPVTGeodetic, 347

GALAlm, 276
GALAuthStatus, 380
GALGstGps, 279
GALIon, 277
GALNav, 273
GALRawINAV, 258
GALSARRLM, 280
GALUtc, 278


GEOAlm, 297
GEOClockEphCovMatrix, 302
GEODegrFactors, 295
GEOFastCorr, 291
GEOFastCorrDegr, 293
GEOIGPMask, 298
GEOIntegrity, 292
GEOIonoDelay, 300
GEOLongTermCorr, 299
GEOMT00, 289
GEONav, 294
GEONetworkTime, 296
GEOPRNMask, 290
GEORawL1, 259
GEOServiceLevel, 301
GLOAlm, 271
GLONav, 270
GLORawCA, 257
GLOTime, 272
GPSAlm, 265
GPSCNav, 268
GPSIon, 266
GPSNav, 263
GPSRawCA, 255
GPSRawL2C, 256
GPSUtc, 267

InputLink, 366
IPStatus, 374

Meas3CN0HiRes, 250
Meas3Doppler, 251
Meas3MP, 253
Meas3PP, 252
Meas3Ranges, 249
MeasEpoch, 242
MeasExtra, 247

NTRIPClientStatus, 372
NTRIPServerStatus, 373

OutputLink, 369

P2PPStatus, 379
PosCart, 320
PosCovCartesian, 311
PosCovGeodetic, 313
PosLocal, 324
PosProjected, 326
PVTCartesian, 303
PVTGeodetic, 307
PVTSupport, 333
PVTSupportA, 334


QualityInd, 376
QZSAlm, 288
QZSNav, 286
QZSRawL1CA, 261
QZSRawL2C, 262

ReceiverSetup, 381
ReceiverStatus, 361
ReceiverTime, 340
RFStatus, 378
RTCMDatum, 357
RxMessage, 383

SatVisibility, 365

VelCovCartesian, 315
VelCovGeodetic, 317

xPPSOffset, 341






































































































































































































































































































































































































































































